The term Chultan referred broadly to humans from the Chultan Peninsula, consisting primarily of members of the Tabaxi tribe.
Chultans were tall and had dark, ebony skin, darker even than that of the Djen of Calimshan. Chultans had adapted to the harsh climates of Chult and did not suffer the usual effects of heatstroke that most humans visiting that country endured.
The hair of Chultans was always tightly curled.
thumb|A Tabaxi tribe warrior.
Chultans were originally from a continent southeast of Maztica and southwest of Zakhara, known only as "The Dark Continent" or Katashaka. In , a group of  tribes, including the Eshowe, the Tabaxi, and the Thinguth, traveled from their homes to Faerûn. These tribes were led by couatls, who taught them about the god Ubtao. Upon arriving in Chult, they were met by Ubtao at the Peaks of Flame. The Thinguth settled in Thindol the other tribes populated the rest of the Chultan Peninsula.
According to legend, the Aldani tribe were a tribe who had overfished for lobsters in the Aldani Basin, causing Ubtao to curse them for their greed by turning them into lobsterfolk.
The Chultan holy city of Mezro was founded by Ubtao himself in .
In , a war erupted between the Tabaxi and Eshowe tribes that would continue for hundreds of years.
In , the Eshowe unleashed Eshowdow, the "Shadow of the Eshowe", and the ancient evil sacked Mezro. However, after ruining Mezro, the creature turned and rampaged against the Eshowe, nearly annihilating them.
In revenge, one of the barae of Mezro, Ras Nsi, began a genocide of the remaining Eshowe people. By , the Eshowe were essentially extinct. The remaining Chultan tribes were assimilated into the Tabaxi tribe and became known as Chultans.
Sometime before 1372 DR, Intulik of the Blood, a Chultan witch doctor, rose to political power after disposing of several members of opposition. He subjugated the tribes, aiming to stay in power for several decades. His life and career were ended abruptly, shortly after Intulik rose to power. The ruler was cut down by Tatchalik the bounty hunter who later left Chult for Waterdeep.
Chultans, as a whole, were simple people, distrusting power and wealth.
In the mind of a Chultan, the clan was always more important than the individual.
All Chultans respected the dinosaurs, both as objects of worship and as sources of food and hides.
thumb|A wise Tabaxi medicine man.
Most Chultans of the Chultan Peninsula lived in small tribal villages. No village was permitted to have more than a single arcane spellcaster. These tribal spellcasters would brew potions for warriors and take part in tribal ceremonies. The villages were named for their clan, which were in turn named after important heroes or tribal spirits.
Chultan villages consisted of circular huts formed from a ring of saplings tied together to form a dome. The walls were formed from woven saplings and large leaves covered the roofs. Most villages also included a smithy, a clan meeting house, a village altar, and any family shrines.
Villages were led by a council of elders.
Rural Chultans wore simple loin cloths. Those living in the city of Mezro wore loose-fitting robes called "tobes".
Iron and steel were rare in Chult, so native Chultans rarely made use of such metals. Armor was rarely worn because of the climate. Their weapons were made of copper, obsidian, stone, or wood, and their warriors would wear hide breastplates and carry large, colorful, oval-shaped hide shields, called "hlang". Common weapons included the "yklwa" (a short spear), the "kerrie" (a knobbed club), handaxes, daggers, short swords, scimitars, long bows, and hunting spears. Cavalry among the Chultans was unheard of.
Most rural Chultans survived by a combination of hunting and foraging. Those living in the savannah would also farm and herd cattle.
thumb|A typical village of a Tabaxi tribe.|300x300px
In Chultan culture outside of the city of Mezro, the color white was associated with death. Unlike the folk of Faerûn, grieving Chultan wore white clothes when grieving, most common being simple flowing light robes.
Chultan legends of the rare and seclusive firebirds told the tale of the creatures flawless beauty and curses sent by the gods upon anyone who harmed these birds. However, these stories were likely created to discourage anyone from hunting firebirds as stalking them meant staying the the earshot of the birds awful raucously obscene hollering they passed for singing. 
The Chultan language made notable usage of inhalations and clicks, and sounded almost musical. 
Common Chultan male names included Atuar, Atumwa, Chiwa, Dengo, Emporo, Juma, Kundé, Kwalu, Losi, Mezoar, Mzolu, Nsi, Osaw, Rindawan, Selu, Teron, Ugor, Vazul, Weshtek, and Yapa. Common Chultan female names included Azuil, Bati, Chuil,  Déla, Eki, Fipya, Isi, Joli, Katéla, Lorit, Mainu, Naboli, Nyali, Omoyala, Razira, Sana, Tefnek, Ulolo, Wadizi, Yuta, Zaidi, and Zamisi. Chultans did not  traditionally have surnames, however in the late 15 century DR, some adopted their old dynastic names as surnames. These included Agolo, Atazi, Balaka, Bolélé, Dawa, Ekulu, Hakal, Imbogoro, Jaharwon, Mwenye, Natombe, Ngore, Oboko, Otamu, Sahandi, Talroa, Utugelu, Yudan, and Zuberi.
Ubtao, the god of the jungle and wild creation, was the primary god of the Chultans. He brought them from their ancient home, built them their most sacred city,
The monster Eshowdow, which was unleashed on Tabaxi people, was in fact a part of Ubtaos essence that had been absorbed by the goddess Shar. Eshowdow still received worship from a small number of Chultans after the fall of the Eshowe, and Shar continued to plan for her revenge and recruit followers in the Valley of Lost Honor.
Chultan were susceptible to a rare natural disease that only affected them, among other human ethnicities. This eating disease was known to grown serpent-scale-like calluses on the skin, often affecting forearms.