Chultan dwarves, or dwarves of the Domain as they called themselves, were albino dwarves that once lived in vast mines and other communities, deep beneath the land of Chult.
The dwarves of Chult that lived underground were albinos their hair and skin were white, and they had pink eyes. This meant that they were very sensitive to the hot sun of Chult and therefore only came above ground at night. They were otherwise physically similar to their northern cousins, albeit a bit shorter on average.
Chultan dwarves were even more somber and grumpy on average than the dwarves of the northern realms. They were not especially violent, but they would defend their homes and mines at any cost.
Most Chultan dwarves lived deep below the surface of Chult, centered in a community known as the Domain.
These dwarves made use of the dinosaurs of the surface as pack animals in their mining operations. Their culture revolved around the wealth of their subterranean mines, and they were superb craftsmen, particularly when working with gems and precious metals.
Chultan dwarves put more importance into heritage and status of ones birth, rather than their capabilities as a leader or member of their society.
They also maintained their own written language, distinct from that of dwarves to the north. 
Tabaxi superstitions equated the color white with death, so Chultan dwarves were often feared by the Chultan humans.
Their usual trade partners were the Batiri goblins from the Dimetrodon Clan. The dwarves received food, skins, and ivory from the goblins in exchange for gems.
The Chultan dwarves also sold diamond-edged weapons to surface folk, including axes, short swords, and spears.
Throughout much of their history, the dwarves of Chult suffered terribly at the hands of the jungle-dwelling yuan-ti.
In 15 century DR, sometime after the ,
thumb|250px|right|Musharib of Port Nyanzaru.
* Musharib, an albino dwarf from Port Nyanzaru who offered his services as a guide to the jungles of Chult.
* Zo, the young ruler who led the dwarves of the Domain during the mid-to-late 15 century.