The Dog People, also called the "North Ones", were primitive, savage, nomadic tribesmen who lived in the deserts of northern Maztica.
Dog People tended to act emotionless and did not seem bothered by poverty or pain. They were dexterous and especially tough but often lacked the charisma or intellect of other races.
The Dog People lived a nomadic life in the harsh, northern lands, organized into villages. The separate tribes of Dog People never cooperated.
A typical village had huts of mud or else the people lived in caves, and the populations ranged from 50 to 500 persons.
They survived by growing crops in the brush and savannah regions, until a drought would occur and they were forced to find other fields. Others set traps for birds or hunted or fished for food.
While they did not have an ordered civilization, they had a vibrant oral tradition.
In Dog People society, men and women were equivalent for example, women were as likely to be warriors as men were.
On rare occasions, a foreigner might impress a Dog People village and be welcomed into the tribe as a brother or sister. In such cases, it was expected that the new member offer his devotion to the tribe in exchange for their protection.
The Dog People practiced a shamanistic religion, and revered all of the gods of the Maztican pantheon, especially Maztica and Tezca. They did not, however, practice human sacrifice.
The Dog People were renowned for their skill at stealth. They were fearless fighters, but if pressed, Dog People would often retreat deeper into their harsh territory, not out of cowardice, but trusting in the environment to drive their enemies away.
Most city-dwelling Mazticans thought of all Dog People as foes, and they were said to capture travelers and torture them.
Some Dog People became plumaweavers or hishnashapers. Druids of Maztica and priests of Tezca were also common.
The Nexalans were related to the Dog People and originated in the same region. The people of Huacli also had the blood of Dog People.