The Gurs, also known as Selûnes Children or the people of the highway, were a nomadic human people.
Like their Rashemi kin, Gurs were typically a stout, strong, and sturdy people, with thick black hair, dark eyes, and dusky skin.
By the 14 century DR, the Gurs were divided into two distinct cultures those who traveled throughout the Western Heartlands of Faerûn and those living in the Endless Wastes and Kara-Tur. The eastern Gur lived around the Iceroot Forest in the shadow of the Hagga Shan and on the far western Plain of Horses to the south. Their lands lay between those of the Fankiang and Zamogedi tribes. A few of the western Gur also settled in some of the poorer sections of cities such as Baldurs Gate, Elturel, and Iriaebor.
The Gurs of the Western Heartlands were arranged by large extended families. A nomadic people, they traveled from settlement to settlement in assorted caravans, picking up random jobs and selling or trading any unwanted goods. Some found work as soothsayers and diviners. Those few who settled in cities struggled to survive in their poorer quarters. Gur culture placed a high value on honor, "Moon-man" was a particularly offensive slur to a Gur. For fighting, these Gur favored the skene, long, slender type of dirk.
thumb|right|250px|A map of Hordelands tribal territories, showing that of the eastern Gur.
Circa 1359 DR, the Gur of the Endless Wastes were on peaceful terms with the Oigur, Zamogedi, and Tuigan tribes and were in a conflict with the Fankiang tribe. The Gur were among the tribes mistakenly called "Tuigan" by outsiders following the Horde Wars.
The Gurs of the Heartlands mainly followed Selûne the Moonmaiden, goddess of wanderers and navigation. They thought of themselves as "children of Selûne". However, some Gurs of prophetic bent were also known to worship Savras, Lord of Divination, with a faith secretive to outsiders. This likely explained the survival of his faith during his long period of imprisonment. Thus, Gurs were often gifted oracles and known for their talent in divining, soothsaying, and fortune telling. Some Gur matriarchs adopted the title Maiden after the legend of their origin.
Like their Rashemi kin, some Gurs possessed "the Sight", an unreliable gift for glimpses of the past and snatches of history or even of the future. This was thought to be a lingering trait of their heritage among the Wychlaran, the Witches of Rashemen, though they retained no other practice of their witchcraft.
Within their own tribes, the Gurs of the Heartlands spoke Gurri, also known as Guran, a patois or creole tongue with roots in the Imaskari languages, but with influence from many other tongues, many thought long-dead—in particular, Halardrim, an ancient dialect of the Rashemi language. The Gurs used the Thorass alphabet. They were also proficient in Chondathan, which they used when communicating with those outside their culture.
Typical names for these Gurs included
MasculineBoriv, Gardar, Madevik, Vlad
Feminine Varra, Ulmarra, Imza, Navarra, Yuldra
FamilyChergoba, Drazlad, Tazyara, Vargoba, Stayankina
The Gurs of the Hordelands continued to speak a related dialect of the Imaskari language.
Gurs made up only about 1% of the human population of the Western Heartlands, but this was perhaps their greatest population in Faerûn.
The western Gurs were believed by scholars to be mainly of Rashemi descent, owing to their strong similarity with the natives of Rashemen. They were also likely to have acquired ancestry among other ethnicities on their travels. Fragments of lore originating from the period around the 1 century DR could be found that described the Gurs as a group of nomads. What was known of the early Gurs suggested that they were refugees fleeing the long-ago war between Raumathar and Narfell. According to a Gur legend, recounted in The Approachable East vol. 3, two young maidens of the Wychlaran disobeyed their elders and so were punished by being transformed into songbirds and trapped within a golden cage, and were told that if they wouldnt learn then they could still make music. Somehow, the young witches escaped and winged their way across Faerûn until they grew too tired and finally stopped in a garden. The gardens owner, a cleric of Selûne, blessed them in the name of the Moonmaiden and restored them to human form. Thereafter, they became "Selûnes children" and all the Gur claimed descent from them.
In the , a group of Gurs attacked the high elf magistrate Astarion Ancunín, though he was rescued by Cazador Szarr.
In the Hordelands, when Yamun Khahan rose to power in the 1340s and 1350s DR, the Gurs there joined with his Grand Army of the Tuigan in hopes of improving their standing amongst the tribes of the Endless Wastes. They became loyal followers of Yamun and aided in his campaign against the Zamogedi. Because the Oigur were afraid of the anger of Yamun Khahan, they allied themselves with the Gur in supporting the Tuigan.
The Gurs were well known in the Western Heartlands of Faerûn in the 14 century and late 15th century DR.
In the late 1400s DR, a large Gur community made ruined Harpshield Castle their winter meeting place. They constructed new wooden structures and a palisade, but departed the place circa 1475 DR and did not return.
Circa 1490 DR, a Gur family, the Rasias—Hricu, Kehkim, Ozzcar, Rilynin, and Sybil—stayed at the Crossing Inn outside Phlan. Initially well-behaved and well-liked, they later committed a series of thefts and druggings, angering many. But this was in an effort to seek powerful allies in the form of Jeny Greenteeth and others for protection before Sybil, the boy Quiver Plumm, and some adventurers were spirited into the Domains of Dread.
In the early 1490s DR, vampire spawn in the service of Cazador Szarr, a vampire lord in Baldurs Gate, were attacking a local Gur community, killing their adults and kidnapping their children to turn into vampires. The Gur monster hunter Gandrel sought out the vampires, and in the , the Gur woman Ulma enlisted the aid of adventurers.
*Therin, a thief and strongman of Pinchs gang in the 1360s DR.
*Sybil Rasia, a fortune teller who became trapped in Barovia in the Domains of Dread in 1490 DR.
*Gandrel, a monster hunter who traveled the Sword Coast in the 1490s DR.
*Ulma, a leader of a Gur community near Baldurs Gate in the 1490s DR.