The Pazruki was one of three major groupings of the humans that lived in the Ama Basin, in particular the northern part of the Koryaz Mountains. They were among the tribes mistakenly called "Tuigan" by outsiders following the Horde Wars.
The territory of the Pazruki bordered the lands of the Fankiang and  the Issacortae.
The members of these tribes were usually slight and thin. They had straight black hair, but they usually sheared their natural hair off. Instead, the women usually wore wigs, and the men fake beards. The origin of this custom was unknown, but some speculated that it was to deal with infections of lice.
The Pazruki highlanders were skilled in agriculture, animal-handling, bowyery, carpentry, chanting, dancing, fishing, horsemanship, pottery, singing, survival, tanning, tracking, weaponsmithing, and weaving.
Most Pazruki tribe members were shepherds, who grazed horses and sheep. Horses were used for transportation as well as food. Sheep were used for wool and meat, being the major food source for the tribes. Common yaks and goats were also raised and eaten, as were a variety of birds.
Shepherds of these tribes were not nomads, as the hills were fertile and filled with lush grass for livestock. Usually, even in winter, these lands remained untouched by snow.
The Pazruki had only simple agricultural practices.
The Pazruki tribes had a patriarchal society, where inheritances were passed from father to son. Each tribe was divided into clans, where each family was managed by a father who controlled his own territory. Clans enacted mutually beneficial alliances and trade deals. In times of disaster all the clans might unite under one leader referred to as the Great Father, but after the danger had passed the tribe would once again be divided into independent families. Polygamy was a common practice for the survival of each clan.
They spoke the Pazruki language.
Pazruki would never knowingly accept items that came from the Maraloi ruins as either gifts or payment. The Maraloi figured most prominently in their legends, as their ruins and relics were often found in valleys of the Koryaz Mountains. Children of exceptionally light complexion, or with even more unusual fair hair, were said to have the mark of the Maraloi, a portent of high aptitude for magical ability.
The Pazruki practiced animism and did not have priests or shamans. Any religious ceremonies would be performed by the father of a wealthy family. Occasionally, however, one would feel the call of magic and go into the wilderness to become an wu jen.
They also held the monastery of Palevash in high regard.
The preferred weapons of the Pazruki barbarians were horsebow, axe, spear, and sword.