Shadowborn referred to any mortal person or creature who was native to the Shadowfell. It was understood that such individuals souls were connected to that plane.
In many cases, shadowborn mortals were indistinguishable from mortals who had been born and raised on the Material Plane, In other cases, the gloom seemed to seep into them. Shadows appeared to dance in their eyes and they looked almost deathly their features were hollow or sunken, their skin was paler or darker than natural, and occasionally their bodies degenerated or seemed to waiver as if insubstantial. Mentally, some shadowborn individuals might exhibit melancholy, madness, paranoia, or nervousness, and might become unable to distinguish between good and evil.
While the term "shadowborn" generally referred to mortal inhabitants of the Shadowfell, it could also be applied to those whose souls had become tethered to that plane in some other fashion, such as by being born near a shadow crossing or having been touched by a creature of shadow (such as a wraith or specter). The descendants of shadowborn individuals might also inherit shadowborn traits even if born outside the Shadowfell. Shadar-kai were considered shadowborn.
Shadowborn felt empowered both physically and mentally when in darkness. Some shadowborn were further able to use their souls as conduits to the Shadowfell, allowing them to channel the powers of shadow and death. This could grant them a wide range of abilities, such as the power to summon darkness, conceal themselves in shadow, empower their attacks, teleport short distances, create body doubles, or manifest tendrils of darkness. 
Shadowborn of all types congregate to pursue their dark goals.
Shadowborn maintained settlements and even kingdoms within the Shadowfell, often making their homes not far from a shadow crossing or in places that had long ago been secured by explorers or previous inhabitants. Whether human, elf, halfling, or something else, such settlements tended to be outwardly very normal, with the shadowborn raising families, engaging in business and trade, setting out on adventures, and offering safe haven to travelers. However, nearly all such settlements concealed some dark secret or unique curse which trapped or troubled its inhabitants (in addition to the strain of fending off the horrors and cultists who also dwelt in the Shadowfell).
They were said to practice the ancient art of shadowdancing.
Shadowborn had a tendency toward dour worldviews and grumpy or sullen personalities. Mood swings were seen as normal, and they might come across as morose and negative, especially in the eyes of more lighthearted folk. When interacting with others, they might stare blankly, speak darkly, or react slowly. Outsiders tended to be somewhat off-put by how calm and accepting shadowborn tended to be in the face of death, which many shadowborn came to regard with a sense of bleak inevitability after having lived in the Shadowfell.
Shadowborn tended to regard the various cultists of the Shadowfell with suspicion or hostility, and considered the worship of Orcus to be a crime.
It was said that cobalt dragons who dwelt in the Shadowfell preferred to dominate tribes of shadowborn humanoids when they needed servants. Death giants were said to subjugate shadowborn trolls and ogres.
The original Shadovar of Thultanthar were shadowborn, and their descendants inherited some connection to shadow.
As of the late 15 century DR, Still Waters was inhabited by shadowborn of various races who dwelt in stilted huts above the haunted waters. At that same time, the so-called Village of the Mad Druid was inhabited by shadowborn who pretended to be undead. The city of Gloomwrought was home to shadowborn.