Tethyrians were a human ethnic group common all over West Faerûn between Calimshan and Silverymoon. They were proud, independent people who tended to be the most tolerant of the ethnic groups in Faerûn.
Tethyrians were of average height and build with skin ranging from dusky to fair. They most often had brown hair and blue eyes however, these colors could vary significantly. 
Tethyrian culture was a mix of Calishite, Chondathan, Illuskan, and Low Netherese. Because of their diverse heritage and history of enslavement, Tethyrians valued independence and freedom. They considered slavery to be the greatest sin and distrusted powerful kingdoms and empires, preferring to live in city-states as opposed to large realms. They were proud of their multi-ethnic heritage and independent life-styles however, this resulted in them rarely uniting in common cause with others that were not their immediate neighbors.
Due to them being divided into tribes and clans in the past, Tethyrians valued loyalty to friends and family above all else. Without a family to hold dear, a Tethyrian would transfer loyalty to a guild, settlement, company, band, or other similar organization. Tethryians that take up adventuring tended to do so to right a wrong done to their family, clan, or tribe or to set their own course in life. 
Tethyrians have historically been discriminated against within Calimshan and composed the bulk of the lower class within the country. In other places, they tended to fill the roles of craftsmen, caravanners, mercenaries, and bards. They despise class divisions based on heritage, but divisions based on wealth and personal accomplishments are common in Tethyrian dominated societies.
Due to the absence of large empires in their history to keep records, Tethyrians relied on oral history, which led to a long tradition of bardcraft within their culture. Their varied heritage has resulted in many sorcerers as well. The Netherese and Calishite influence on their culture has produced many Tethyrian wizards, but they tended to learn from traditional master-apprentice mentorships as opposed to formal schools. The Tethyrian spellcaster population has a proportionally larger fraction of incantatrixes and shadow adepts when compared to every other human ethnic group. Rangers, druids, and clerics flourished given their diverse faiths and lack of large governments.
Many cultures left their print on Tethyrians, including bringing in their various faiths. This resulted in Tethyrians worshipping all of the Faerûnian pantheon fairly equally. The only exception to this was Siamorphe, who was originally a Tethyrian goddess and had the most popular church among Tethyrian nobles in the 1370s DR. 
Tethryians tended to use dogs more than other animals, specifically ones bred for herding, hunting, or working. They commonly employed falcons and swamp ferrets for hunting or as familiars. Ravens were kept as pets and familiars and were most popular around the High Moor. Horses were their preferred steeds and draft animals along with pegasi, griffons, and hippogriffs.
Tethyrian folklore contained many stories about their ancestors living peacefully in dwarven and elvish empires, so they held those two races in high esteem. However, in Tethyr, they viewed elves with suspicion and hostility. They got along well with halflings, were indifferent to gnomes, and suspicious of Genasi. The Tethyrians north of the Cloud Peaks have battled many orc hordes and devilspawn from Dragonspear Castle and therefore despised tielfings and half-orcs, while southern Tethyrians viewed them with sympathy given their history of being discriminated against as well. 
In regards to other humans, Tethyrians saw Illuskans as too war-like and Chondathans as too greedy, but overall got along well with both. They despised the Mulan for their practice of slavery, and hated Calishites the most because of their history of discrimination and enslavement of Tethyrians. Most human immigrants of other racial backgrounds were tolerated.
Native human tribes south of the Marching Mountains were absorbed into the lower class of the nation of Coramshan, in the region that would later become Calimshan, around -6100 DR. Humans in what is now western Tethyr, originally under the rule of High Shanatar, were enslaved by Calishites by -2600 DR when High Shanatar fell. The mixing of Calishites with these various human groups that were conquered led to the Tethyrians, who began a series of revolts during the period of -670 DR and -370 DR.
Tethyrians could commonly be found in Amn, Calimshan, Cormyr, the Dragon Coast, the North, Tethyr, the Western Heartlands, and Waterdeep.