The Uthgardt was a vast group of human barbarians of the North, united in their common worship of the chieftain-hero-turned-deity, Uthgar. The eleven tribesThe number of active tribes has varied throughout the years. each venerated their own distinct totem animal. but went on to represent an aspect of his nature, and served as a mediator between him and his barbaric tribesmen.
The Uthgardt often had black hair and blue eyes, were predominantly larger than most other humans, and sought to hone their bodies to physical perfection. The tribesmembers dressed rustically.
Collectively, the Uthgardt people possessed a truly fierce and bloodthirsty disposition, and outsiders saw them as uncultured, crude, and prone to needless violence. They held their thousand year-old traditions in high regard,
The Uthgardt respected not only their own physical strength, but the natural world as well. They embraced their connection to the wilderness and honored those who showed great depth of knowledge about the world. Their lifestyles trained them to hone their senses in order to become skilled hunters.
Some youths would leave their tribes to prove themselves in the wider world as a rite of passage. They sought to battle the enemies of their people and return with spoils and stories from their exploits.
An Uthgardt shaman.The Uthgardt were highly superstitious and feared or mistrusted arcane magic. However, they were more open to primal or divine magic, and in particular they respected the powers of each tribes shamans. No Uthgardt would cut down a living tree or build a fire without a shamans blessing. They believed that shamans otherworldly abilities originated from their deceased ancestors.
The Uthgardt held their dead brethren in high regard, believing that their spirits lingered among the living to offer advice and assistance. most notably at the ancestral mounds that each tribe maintained. 
Each tribe revered their own totemic spirit beast, all of whom had their power taken by their god-creator, Uthgar, and some warriors were said to be able to channel the powers of their totem to aid them in battle. Chauntea, mother-in-law to the totem beasts and Tempus, the "father" of Uthgar. More often than not, tribesmembers who worshiped nontraditional gods would keep this a secret from their fellow Uthgardt.
All tribes were typically known to celebrate with a day and night feast for the spring equinox, summer solstice, and winter solstice. These celebrations were known as the "Birthing", "Fullness", and "Darking", respectively. Around this time a tribes shaman would also seek out guidance regarding the coming months from their respective totem. in which youths would hunt down their totems sworn enemies or opposed beasts to prove themselves worthy of full membership in the tribe.
The Uthgardt barbarians spoke a dialect of Illuskan, known as Bothii. It was only an oral language and utilized no known alphabet.
The Uthgardt ranged from the Glimmerwood in the north through the lands of Luruar in the east. Each tribe claimed a swath of the Savage Frontier as its own hunting grounds, regardless of any intersection with lands claimed by other sentient species, including those from other tribes.
A tribe was comprised of several different clans, each of which was led by its own chieftain. A Great Chief was selected from among these leaders, to serve as the ruler of the Uthgardt people.
As a whole, the Uthgardt did not trust the "civilized" folks of the North. They were considered a fount of resources to be pillaged at their will.
While they loathed giants and their kind, the Uthgardts hatred of the orcs was above all else. This brought them into constant conflict with the orcs of Many-Arrows during the 15 century DR, and meant that they unwittingly served as a defense against orc raiders for the people of Luruar.
The Uthgardt originally consisted of Northmen raiders from Ruathym, Netherese Runlathan refugees, and various others who swore fealty to the mortal chieftain, Uthgar Gardolfsson. The came together in the .
They became known as the Uthgardt after Uthgar Gardolfssons death from wounds suffered in battle with Gurt, Lord of the Pale Giants, in the . It was said that after his death, Uthgar was elevated by Tempus to be his exarch and battle companion. Individual followers took up worship of the thirteen beast spirits that Uthgar had claimed to have tamed, and formed into tribes along this religious divide.
The Red Pony and Golden Eagle Uthgardt tribes vanished into the Underdark in the  and were not heard from since. Before their disappearance, both tribes shared the One Stone ancestral mound with the Sky Pony tribe and had attended the most recent Runemeet. Some residents of the Underdark discovered the descendants of these tribesmen as grimlocks living in and around the Cavern of Cloven Heads.
In the , the mages of the Covenant used their magic to create an alliance between the disparate tribes of Uthgardt in order for them to stand united against coming orc and goblinoid hordes. The mages tasked them first with hunting down and killing orc chieftains to prevent hordes forming behind them. Their first major engagement was during the Goblin Wars of the . Then, while fighting an army of ogres, orcs, and goblins in the Evermoors, the Elk tribe was almost wiped out defending Flint Rock and the survivors descended into banditry. The alliance dissolved in the  when it could no longer sustain the losses that it was taking.
Some time before the , a long-forgotten druid circle infected Uthgardt tribes of the north with a virulent pox in order to cull the population and exert control. Not surprisingly, the sickness went out of control and threatened complete Uthgardt extinction. To heroically resolve the problem the druids themselves created, the conclave crafted numerous ceremonial Uthgardt belts and distributed them among barbarian leaders. Thanks to the belts, Uthgardt tribes survived however, this only made their distrust of outsiders more extreme.
The events of the Spellplague of the , terrified the superstitious Uthgardt, and they regarded the newly arrived peoples of Abeir as invaders. These anxieties reached a fever pitch when the Gray Wolf tribe razed the town of Conyberry, wiping out both refugees from Abeir and the townsfolk sheltering them.
 Black Lion
 This tribe held territory in the northern Silver Marches and Druarwood forest.
 Black Raven
 Having claimed the Ice Lakes and western reaches of the Frozenfar, this tribe counted the Griffon tribe as among their list of foes.
 Blue Bear
 Previously thought to have been eliminated, this tribe took careful considerations when leaving their spirit mound of Stone Stand.
 Elk
 Originating from Flint Rock, this tribe hunted throughout the Evermoors and a stretch of land north of the River Dessarin.
 Gray Wolf
 These Uthgardt tribesmen were all cursed with lycanthropy, and transformed into werewolves at every full moon.
 Great Whale
 Great Worm
 The spirit mound of this tribe was called the Great Worm Cavern and was located within the Spine of the World mountains.
 Griffon
 For decades, the Great Chiefs of this tribe sought to raze every settlement located throughout the North.
 Red Tiger
 This particularly ferocious tribe regularly raided the settlements of the Silver Marches.
 Sky Pony
 These barbarians revered Tempus, along with their spirit totem and the chief deity Uthgar.
 Thunderbeast
 Considered among the most civilized of barbarians, this tribe formed its own settlement of Grunwald for some years, but eventually abandoned their hunting grounds and disappeared into the Lurkwood.
 Tree Ghost
 Despite their conflicts with the local elves of the High Forest,