Abeir ( ) was the twin planet of Toril, located in the same material plane of its sibling world, but within a "pocket dimension" that was out of synchronicity with Toril. Abeir revolved around the same sun of Realmspace, and shared the lunar satellite Selûne and its Tears with Toril. The name of this twin planet means life, vitality, the experience of living, and the cycle of life, depending on the words around it.
Abeir had a steel-colored sky due to the arambar, the residual energy left by the death of the primordial of the same name.
The known continents of Abeir were Shyr, Marranth, Irronther, and Laerakond (at least before it was transferred to Toril), as well as a few archipelagos such as the Cold Strait, the Ice Run, and the Khannath and a region of which little was known, Lhoraun. Among the known bodies of water of Abeir were the Andol Sea, the Arserpent Sea, the Boiling Sea, the Dun Seas, the Frozen Seas, and the Oshlar Sea. 
Like Toril, it also contained an Underdark (known as the Nardark to the local inhabitants). 
For a time, Maztica was also part of this world as a consequence of the Spellplague, but this landmass was returned to Toril during the Second Sundering.
Abeir was inhabited primarily by primordials, dragons, dragonborn, dwarves, genasi, halflings, humans, and a few other races that also inhabited Toril. 
Elves and other fey creatures were almost unheard of on Abeir, although drow were known to inhabit its Underdark.
Abeir was also inhabited by abominations and other aberrant creatures from the Far Realm, most of them the original inhabitants of Abeir-Toril.
The people of Abeir primarily spoke the languages of Thorass and Aklave.
Magic manifested differently on Abeir than in Toril, as there was no Weave and no normal way to contact any gods, as gods were wary about this world. Likewise, Planar magic (or at least planar magic that depended on the Nine Hells), such as that granted to warlocks by a pact, also worked differently and was more difficult to use than on Toril.
The only magic that worked normally on Abeir was that a creature could create on its own, such as the inherent elemental magic a primordial had in its body or a dragons breath. Swordmages, on the other hand, were common among the genasi of Shyr.
Magic items also worked normally on Abeir, and Abeiran dragons usually scavenged primordial corpses in order to create powerful artifacts from their remains, such as the Breath of Petron.
Psionics were also a type of magic that could be used on this world, however this kind of magic seemed to be as uncommon on Abeir as it was on Toril.
Creating artificial portals to Abeir was nearly impossible, but a few natural portals connected Abeir and Toril.
After Ao sundered the world of Abeir-Toril, splitting it into the two twin planets, Abeir and Toril, he gave Abeir to the few primordials who survived the Dawn War to rule. Those primordials were tired of war and were unable to overcome their dragon steeds when those rebelled against them, starting the conflict known as the War of Fang and Talon. After the war the few primordials who survived retreated into hiding and fell silent, and only a handful of dragon lords survived. Not long after, a mighty dragon called Gorloun founded the first dragon empire, and soon rival draconic realms sprang up thereafter, and the long Rule of Dragons began. 
These nations quarreled each other for ages, but draconic rule remained nearly unchallenged until the Blue Breath of Change, when both worlds merged for a certain time. Laerakond and other regions of Abeir were transported to Toril, and the fate of the remaining nations on the world of Abeir became a mystery to Faerûnian sages.