Auroth the Ice Snake was a serpentine constellation in Realmspace.
It was also known as Old Icefangs by the Uthgardt tribes,The sourcebook Anauroch does not explicitly give Auroth as an alternative name for Urwath. However, their names and descriptions are very similar. Plus, two other constellations from this event were also sourced from the book - Mystras Star Circle and Eyes of the Watching Woman.
Auroth consisted of seventeen stars in a zigzag shape,Though the image might give the impression that this constellation is made up of more than seventeen stars, that is the number stated within the game. that stretched across the horizon from east to west and curved at one end, which gave it a resemblance to a slithering snake. The area considered to be its head was the brightest cluster. 
It was situated beneath the constellation Mystras Star Circle and ran horizontally to it.
Auroth could be observed in Anauroch, Cormyr, Iriaebor, Tunland, Westgate, and the Sword Coast North. It was especially visible from the village of Twilight Tor around the same time as the Simril festivities.
Old legends in the Sword Coast told of Auroth having been a faithful and much beloved mount of the goddess Auril, who one day during a battle among the deities of Faerûn sacrificed himself to shield her from an attack and ascended into the sky for his selfless act. Some additionally claimed that priests of Auril would occasionally pray to specific stars within the constellation in hopes of receiving a divine message from the Frostmaiden.
Stories told by the Bedine tribes spoke of Urwath being an immoral and savage creature that predated the worlds deities. They blamed him as being responsible for the creation of the Anauroch regions transformation into a desert by eating away at all the vegetation and mountains. These stories further claimed that Urwath could continue to expand southward across the sky, transforming more regions into deserts. 
Some astrologers claimed that people born under this constellation displayed a demeanor of being composed, even frigid, but would get enraged when pressured.