Journeys Legg was an asteroid that existed within the Astral Plane, having previously been among those within the Tears of Selûne. It was a highly fortified neogi base and hideout.
Behind the rock of the asteroid, the neogi had built inner walls of adamantine that further shielded their base from intruders.
The neogis prisoner stockade was found amidst a network of tunnels dug deep within the asteroid.
The innermost sanctums of Journeys Legg were set within a maze-like corridor, each set behind locked doors. Notable locales included an incubation chamber for juvenile eyedrakes, a "meat grinder" chamber that ground down food for pet neothelids, and a gauntlet of trap-filled chambers that deterred would-be prison breaks.
The asteroid was less than  across.
It was also the main base of operations of the neogi in Realmspace. Nearly all neogi attacks and raids within the sphere originated from Journeys Legg.
Journeys Legg was used by the neogi as a hub in their slave traffic activities in Realmspace. Slaves captured from Toril and other nearby locations were first brought there before being sold or put to work by the neogi.
The asteroid was extremely well fortified and guarded. Journeys Legg was constantly watched over by at least ten neogi spelljammers of different types ready to defend it, along with an array of defensive turrets. 
It was also protected by scores of mind-controlled monstrous and otherworldly creatures that had been enslaved by the neogi,
Some time in the late 15 century DR, a gith adventuring party called the Draazvir managed to escape from imprisonment from within Journeys Legg after being captured by neogi slavers. The entire asteroid mysteriously shifted from from its position within the Tears of Selûne to the Astral Plane. Gath Qos wished every prisoner free from Jorurneys Legg and plane shifted her and her allies to nearby Stardock.
Unfortunately, one party member Jaanvald Llanou, was apprehended by Red Wizards and imprisoned in the frozen Abeiran necropolis of Xorvintroth on Toril. After Jaanvald and the other captives of the Red Wizards were freed by Remallia Haventree and her allies in the Harpers, he was informed by his allies in the Shasal Khou the location of the slavers base.
Adventurers allied with the Harpers, members of Draazvir, and agents of the Shasal Khou formed a spacefaring raiding party and set out for Journeys Legg together. They rallied allies among the giff, aboard their mighty great bombard, and a band of gnome ceremorphs that piloted the Id Ascendant, and set out for the Astral Plane.
Once within Journeys Legg, they discovered that the neogi of Journeys Legg had allied with a illithid named Xissix. The two had stolen the artifact known as the Anomaly from Xorvintroth, and attached it to the otherworldly machine referred to as the Engine, in order to conduct experiments utilizing Far Realm energy. They had combined the two constructs into a single, sentient entity that phased the entirety of Journeys Legg into the Astral Plane.
While the exact fate of the the combined Anomaly–Engine entity was unknown, Jaanvald and his fellow adventurers did manage to save many of those enslaved by the neogi raiders.
* Xissix, a mind flayer who conducted strange experiments with energy from the Far Realm.