– 
The Great Conflagration was a decade-long cataclysm that occurred between the nations of Narfell and Raumathar between  and .
In addition to the traditional clashing of opposing armies, Narfell and Raumathar used their sorcerous might to summon powerful allies to fight for them. These included demon lords and even the avatar of Kossuth.
The Great Conflagration was spread across the lands between Narfell and Raumathar in northeast Faerûn.
A cabal in Narfell beseeched Kostchtchie for aid and he sent an army of frost giants to march under Narfells banner. They marched south from the Icerim Mountains while other Nar forces invaded the lakelands of Shemen. The Raumathari used stout elemental magic to drive the invaders back, but Narfell eventually broke through. The Nar attacked and destroyed Winterkeep.
Raumathar retaliated by using fell magic learned from their former Imaskari masters, summoning a horde of white dragons who fought savagely to the death and shattered the forces of Narfell.
The Warlord Thulkarr later invaded Narfell with an army of stone constructs. This force was aided by magical portals, allowing them to attack with complete surprise, eventually pushing the Nars back to Narjast. When the Raumathari forces reached Dun-Tharos the Nentyarch was persuaded to use a final resort (known as the "Dark Rift") and opened portals to the Abyss that created a planar rift which engulfed the invading army.
Prepared to crush Raumathar once and for all, Nentyarch Rheligaun Darakh had the mighty demon Eltab summoned and persuaded him to lead their legions on a final assault into Raumathar. Eltabs forces pushed their way deep into enemy territory before suddenly halting the army. Eltab had become fascinated with the spirits native to the region and focused all of his attention on enslaving them to use for his own reasons.
Narfell learned of a Raumathari surprise attack brewing in Kensten far to the south, so they abandoned Eltab and marched in haste. The ensuing battle was costly for both sides. Raumathar summoned a flaming avatar of Kossuth with the hopes of turning the tide in their favor, but the Lord of Flames annihilated both armies, leaving Narfell and Raumathar completely defenseless. Any remaining demons and other summoned combatants rampaged through both countries, destroying any living creatures they could find.
Both Narfell and Raumathar were utterly destroyed with the end of the Great Conflagration.
The ruling dynasties during the Great Conflagration were the Talanthil Dynasty in Raumathar, and the Darakh Dynasty in Narfell. Both bloodlines were wiped off the face of Faerûn by the end of the conflict with Sorcerer–Arkhan Vayloss Talanthil IV being consumed by Kossuths final assault, and the disappearance of Nentyarch Rheligaun Darakh.
The conflict was described in part in the epic Rashemaar song, entitled the Firedawn Cycle.