The Ruining, also known as the Cataclysm or simply the eruption of Mount Hotenow,The proper names "the Ruining" and "the Cataclysm" appear only in the 2013 game Neverwinter. Other canon sources refer to this event as either a/the "cataclysm", "the eruption of Mount Hotenow", or "when Mount Hotenow erupted". was the destruction of the city of Neverwinter when Mount Hotenow erupted at the end of the summer of the . It was the defining event of the 15 century DR in the history of Neverwinter.
The northern peak of the Mount Hotenow volcano exploded, sending a pyroclastic flow of superheated ash, fiery boulders, and lava directly into the city of Neverwinter. Buildings and people alike were consumed by flames, creating streams of ash and blood. Lava flowed into the city via the Neverwinter River, transforming the water into hissing steam as hot as a forge before becoming just lava. Falling boulders easily demolished homes, and the air was filled with hot ash and searing gas that could incinerate flesh. Much of the city was burned to the ground and half of the population died in an instant.
The eruption also triggered a massive shockwave that caused some of Neverwinters districts to sink and others to rise, creating steep cliffs within the city. Most surviving structures were those which were heavily or magically reinforced, such as military fortifications, public buildings, or the homes of powerful wizards or wealthy nobles. The many collapsed buildings broke and clogged the citys catacombs and sewers, turning them into a twisting underground maze that threatened to collapse further. When sewer tunnels did collapse, they created trenches running through the ruins which served as convenient highways for monsters.
A map of Neverwinter from three decades following the eruption.
Some districts of Neverwinter were hit harder than others, with the western neighborhoods (located further from the quaking mountain) tending to fare better. 
The southeastern quadrant of the city was perhaps the hardest hit this was where the earth shifted so violently as to open the Chasm, which swallowed the Arcanist Quarter and left the whole area as a broken maze of ruins. The cathedral of Mystra fell into the Chasm, alongside the nearby Apprentice Row. Two other nearby structures&mdashan army post and the fortified home of Roderick the Wary&mdashremained perched perilously on the Chasms edge.
The noble mansions of the northwestern Blacklake District were largely left standing thanks in part to their sturdy (and sometimes magically reinforced) construction, however the lives of the districts residents were not spared in the fires. The Blacklake itself became so choked with ash that it was little more than a pond of sludge.
The House of a Thousand Faces survived, but was abandoned in the immediate aftermath.
The citys southwestern quarter remained comparatively intact. Of the three bridges spanning the Neverwinter River, only the Winged Wyvern Bridge survived while the Dolphin and Sleeping Dragon bridges were destroyed.
Castle Never was hit hard by the quakes and fires, leaving parts of it toppled and most of its inhabitants dead. However, the Castles catacombs—known as the Neverneath—were left strangely intact.
Upheavals in the Neverdeath cemetery altered its elevation, causing mausoleums to collapse and graves to spill open.
The docks were destroyed and the whole harbor was swamped with tidal waves, leaving submerged buildings and drowned corpses blocking any access by ship. As such, the city docks were left flooded, rotting, and abandoned. The earthmote upon which the Moonstone Mask was located became untethered from the ground and floated out to sea for several days.
The northeastern districts were destroyed, although the area boasted many hidden underground cellars and chambers that remained sealed and untouched. The Merchant Guild Hall and Merchant Square survived mostly intact, but were utterly abandoned afterward. The merchants homes on nearby Waukeen Way were not so lucky, with very few left standing.
The destruction wrought by the eruption was mostly confined to Neverwinter, although it had far reaching consequences for other parts of the region. The eruption devastated the town of Thundertree&mdashwhich was quickly abandoned before coming to be haunted by possessed plant creatures&mdashand it erased the county of Corlinn Hill. Meanwhile, Helms Hold was battered, but it endured and strove to continue serving as a place of healing for survivors. Its sturdy Cathedral of Helm was unharmed. 
300px|A map of Neverwinter from twelve years following the eruption.
While most survivors fled the city immediately following its destruction, a few attempted to reclaim the ruins. as well as by the horrors from the Chasm. This soon led to the initial construction of a fortification known as The Wall out of the rubble and detritus to protect their Settlers Enclave, as well as the formation of a militia known as the Neverwinter Guard. The first leader to emerge amidst these survivors was a man named Jelvus Grinch.
Neverwinter was a largely desperate and lawless place for several years.
As the city was slowly rebuilt, it became a patchwork of slums, new construction, and the broken remnants of the old city. The first district to be rebuilt was a southwestern portion that had been relatively lightly damaged by the eruption, and which came to be called the Protectors Enclave when it was completed in the . From there, Dagult Neverembers "New Neverwinter" movement was spearheaded. and by the , people had begun returning to the city to help rebuild and to open new businesses. The docks were also largely restored (at the cost of cutting down every tree on the nearby Upland Rise for lumber), allowing trade to resume. despite massive ongoing reconstruction efforts that resulted in a forest of scaffolding throughout the city.
It was not until the , that the Chasm was closed, trade along the High Road had resumed, and Neverwinter began to thrive once more. Castle Never was still undergoing repairs as late as the .