Heavy magic was a form of physical magic. The distilled form of heavy magic was known as super heavy magic.
Heavy magic seemingly had many alterable properties, though it was particularly viscous. to green to blue.
In the Shadowed Age, the phaerimm wished to wipe out the Netherese. To start with, they drained magic from the land, as well as nourishment from both raw and produced food. Karsus, however, discovered this drain, and tried to find a way to somehow counter the effects of the phaerimm. The mad arcanist would experiment with the uses of heavy magic, and even created a mouse-delivery system where mice transported globs of heavy magic to fill cracks in old walls. 
Heavy magic gained much experimental use throughout the enclave of Karsus. The Museum of Heavy Magic was constructed, which showed off the various effects of heavy magic experimentation.
The phaerimm attempted to speed up their plan to destroy the Netherese by giving them "enough magic to choke". To do this, they spawned a monstrously heavy magical star and pulled it from the sky. The magical star was first discovered by the arcanist Candlemas and his barbarian companion Sunbright Steelshanks. Karsus travelled back in time 358 years to the spot where the two companions had located the star, acquired the star (as well as the companions), and travelled back to the future year of . After experimentation with the star-metal, Karsus created super heavy magic.
In , Karsus infused himself with super heavy magic. He grew taller, and glowed in a white-silver radiance. Babbling incoherent arcane chants, the super heavy magic raged within him until he came into a state of being between a man and deity. This event lead to the collapse of the Netherese Empire, which was forever known as Karsuss Folly.
Lingering heavy magic from the Karsestone was used nearly two millennia later, in the , by Melegaunt Tanthul to return the Princes of Shade onto Toril.
As with magic, heavy magic was able to seemingly do anything. From creating rainbow-fountains, to turning others into liches, there seemed no limit to the applicability of heavy magic.
Applying (super) heavy magic to spells appeared to mimic or amplify their effects. For example, applying it to a flaming sphere would create a fire that could not be quenched.
It was not known how Karsus made the original form of heavy magic. However, super heavy magic could be made by storing heavy magic in a star-metal crucible.
In , magically mutated creatures infiltrated the enclave of Unity. It was rumored that these anomalies were created by the use heavy magic.