Faddi (Midani)  Gin (Wa-an)  Orn (Draconic)
Silver was a precious metal that was used all across Toril for a vast variety of purposes.
Shapechangers (most notably lycanthropes) were vulnerable to silver. Vampires, devils, wraiths, and wights were also vulnerable to silver. Wizards from Aglarond never wore silver and were rumored to be vulnerable to silver. 
Silver was widely used in currency, weapons, armor, jewelry and magical items. It was sought after for its purity and beauty.
thumb|250px|A selection of silver and copper coins from the Realms.
Silver was commonly used in the form of coins all across the realm. The shape, size, and value of these coins varied depending on the time and place that they were from.
To create a silver weapon, the silver was often bonded to a steel weapon. This was a complicated process combining both alchemy and metallurgy known as alchemical silvering this form of silver was known as alchemical silver and such a weapon was said to be "silvered". It could not be performed with non-metal items, nor with exotic metals like adamantine, cold iron, and mithral. However, while a silvered weapon would harm lycanthropes and other creatures vulnerable to silver, it was more fragile and a little less injurious. Silvering also cost extra, from an additional 2 gp for a projectile, 20 gp for a small weapon, 90 gp for a one-handed weapon, and 180 gp for a two-handed weapon. Temporary silvering could be applied for an hour with a vial of silversheen.
The soldiers who protected the High Palace of Silverymoon wore suits of silver plate mail.
Silver was often used in the production of items that related to light and moon magic.
Maintaining the shine on silver required polishing with a non-abrasive cloth. Scalewater Carp were known to be particularly good at polishing silver with their mouths. These rare fish could only be found in one pond, called Scalewater, on the southern edge of the Thunder Peaks.
If treated magically, silver weighed as much as steel. Magically treated silver also gained a level of resistance to electricity.
Following the conquest of Maztica by Amn in the , treasures of the shattered Maztican Empire were melted into bars and transported back to Faerûn as trade ingots. By the , Maztican silver ingots were commonly encountered along the Sword Coast and the Nelanther Islands.
Silver ore was mined all across the realm, often in mountains or deep underground.
 Galena Mountains
 As of 1359 DR, the iron and silver mines in the Galena Mountains were some of the richest in Toril. 
 Lustrum
 Not long before 1360 DR, the drow House Xorlarrin discovered rich silver seams outside of Menzoberranzan.
 Glitterdelve
 Glitterdelve was home to the some of the richest silver, iron, and copper mines of the Deep Realm.
 Tannath Mountains
 The Tannath mountains were once full of numerous silver mines. By 1479 DR, they were all abandoned.
 Fireshear
 The copper and silver ores of Fireshear were exposed by a volcanic eruption or meteorite. The entire town was made up of miners.