Mirror of the Moor
Highstar Lake was a body of water located in the Delimbiyr Vale region of the Savage Frontier.The location of Highstar Lake varies slightly by edition. The FRCS3e map shows it within the northern area of the High Moor. The FRCG map shows it a bit further east, taking up the northeast corner of the moor. The SCAG map shows a smaller, unlabeled body of water that is in the same position as the 3e Highstar Lake. It was the subject of a number of tales, legends, mystifying appearances and mysterious disappearances.
This lake was known by many names among humans and other races, being called "Daeurimlakh" by dwarves and "Evendim" by elves, though Highstar was the most commonly used. Most maps of the High Moor region neglected to label the lake with any specific name.
Highstar was quite famous for its clear, mirror-like surface. It sat in a bowl formed by granite in the north and west, as well as marble and limestone in the south and east. In the western reaches of granite there was a gap that the lake drained out of, forming a waterfall and series of rapids along the granite cliffs that culminated in the hark river, the southernmost tributary of the River Shining.
The lake was located north of the High Moor, a bit west of Mount Hlim, in the northeastern area of the High Moor.
It was northeast of several towers that were remnants of ancient Miyeritar.
The dwarfhold known as the Halls of the Hammer was located near the shores of the lake. Close to it was a cabin used by a band of adventurers, known as Hammer Hall.
Animals commonly found in and around the Highstar included frogs, giant catfishes, leeches, and toads.
Highstar began life as a mere sinkhole in the High Moors plateau.
Around the , a malevolent mage was spreading poison within the waters of the lake. This devious act killed large populations of its aquatic life.
During the 15 century DR, a number of men from the surrounding area went missing and were believed to have been abducted by Highstar Lakes fabled denizen. They always returned after a few days time, with pockets full of ancient elven coins.
Similarly, infants would periodically appear at the shores of the lake. The locals that took these babies in believed they were the offspring of the same being.
The source of the lakes enigmatic goings-on was a creature known as the "lady in the lake". Not much was known about her, except that she sometimes took a form that resembled a nymph and other times appeared as a grotesque ichthyic creature. 
An amethyst dragon by the name of Shderra Dzeer also resided within the lake. In terms of undead, wights and lacedons were known to be found within the lake.
It was said by some that the depths of Highstar Lake contained the ruins of an ancient airship that once flew over the skies of Netheril.
Some claimed that a lich dwelled within the alleged ruins of the lake.
Another legend told of an ancient temple beneath its waters, that was dedicated to some long-lost deity.