The Nebulae Pool, or the Pool of Stars, was a peaceful forest lake in the eastern part of the Forest of Tethir, to the north from the elven tree settlement of Suldanessellar.
The Nebulae Pool stood on the northwestern end of the Swanmays Glade with the forest river of Calathalureenteir running southeast from the pool towards the Moonglade but never reaching it. The lakes calm waters reflected the sky and stars like a perfect mirror, making it a spectacularly beautiful location. To accentuate the Nebulaes natural beauty, when the stars were bright in the sky, ancient female elven ghosts appeared on the pools waters, dancing in elegant sways. During the daytime, the lakes floor of rocky crystals reflected the suns rays back and outwards from the Nebulae Pool. The reflected light flashed brightly until the sun hid behind the forests trees. The lakes waters were cold, pure, and tasted sweet.
At the center of the pool stood a small island that once was the home of the swanmay namesake of the Swanmays Glade.
The Nebulae Pools elven name translated as the "Pool of Stars" in Common. The name in Common—"Nebulae"—honored Naebrulae Athtrilan, a human explorer who first (apart from the elves) discovered this natural beauty. Its beauty was the reason why it was the only one of many lakes ever to be marked on maps of the great forest. According to Naebrulae, he witnessed a grandly decorated throne that sank to the bottom of the pool and later rose up out of its depths later as if by magic several hours later. The explorer theorized that a deity placed their throne in the lake, making it a sacred location. He thought that the throne could bestow strange powers on anyone who sat on it or that it opened a path to some hidden location. As of the late 14 century DR, the throne had not been seen by anyone but Naebrulae Athtrilan. When the elves of the Forest of Tethir were asked about the throne, they did not deny its existence, instead saying one thing "the time must be right."
One known resident of the lake, the swanmay, was believed to be dead or gone by the late 14 century DR.