The Oceanus was a river that connected several upper planes of the Great Wheel cosmology.
The Oceanuss source was located in Thalasia, the fourth layer of Elysium. From there, it flowed through the layers of Belierin, Eronia, and Amoria, moving on to Krigala, the first layer of the Beastlands, where it was joined by several streams flowing from the second layer, Brux. Finally, the river passed through Arvandor and ended by flowing into the waters of Aquallor, the second layer of Arborea, although several maelstroms at the bottom of the infinite ocean transported travelers back to the rivers headwaters in Thalasia. This cyclic nature led many sages to believe that the Oceanus, in fact, had no beginning and no end.
Close to Arborea, the river was tenuously drawn to the Gates of the Moon in the first layer of Ysgard. The connection, however, was faint, and dependent on the tides.
The water of the Oceanus was sweet and fragrant.
250px|The plane of Elysium along the banks of the Oceanus.
The Oceanus dominated the features of all four layers of Elysium. The river branched off and rejoined throughout its flow, sometimes even doubling back on itself at certain places.
The river was the main means of travel throughout the layers of Elysium, and was frequently used to connect to the other planes along its course. Although the river did not suffer from pirate raids, there were many natural hazards along its course, such as rapids, eddies, and whirlpools, as well as large natural predators.
Many towns were established along the banks of the Oceanus. Its course was always populated with boats sailing up or downstream. It was easy to rent or hire boats in one such town.
The Oceanus was the preferred course of the Great Modron March as it passed through Amoria towards the gate-town of Ecstasy in the Outlands.
The River Oceanus was guarded by Oceanus dragons, who protected travelers along its course from evil creatures and natural hazards. Although they spent most of the time on patrol, it was common for Oceanus dragons to visit the Dragon Eyrie from time to time.
The depths of the river were also inhabited by delphons, or songsharks, mysterious singing creatures that could reveal secrets about the Oceanus itself or the workings of the multiverse to careful listeners. Other intelligent aquatic life that could be found in its waters included asrai, balaena, dolphins, nereids, selkies, and aquatic elves.