Riven Rock Pool was a special hot spring found in the small town of Manywaters in the Border Kingdoms. Riven Rock Pool was the name given to both the spring itself and the small pool where the water collected.
Riven Rock was a large black dome-shaped rock about the size of a small house. On its surface were small fissures shaped like wagon wheels, radiating from the middle of the rock. From these fissures water flowed into the pool. The pool itself was small in size, about  in depth in the center and about  across at the widest point. It formed an arc about 200 paces long around one side of Riven Rock.
The waters of the pool were capable of healing curses, injuries, diseases, insanity, and parasitic infestations. The water even caused lost limbs to regrow. Most injuries required an individual to be within the pool for up to half a day for the healing to be effective. While the pool was unable to return life to a corpse, the waters acted as a stasis of sorts for an individual who was dying, with their condition only worsening to death once removed from the pool.
The pool healed by dissolving any magic item placed within it, absorbing an items magical properties and converting it so it can heal. The pool only used up as much magical energy as required.
The water itself was just regular water once removed from the pool, and its underground source also lacked any healing properties. It appeared the Riven Rock itself granted the waters abilities to heal. Only small amounts of water could be removed from the pool at a time. Magical and mundane pumps failed to remove any water, and the pools water could not be brought to a boil while in the pool.
The Riven Healing House surrounded Riven Rock Pool.
The unique properties of Riven Rock Pool were discovered by accident. A wounded adventurer, exhausted from her grievous injuries including a severed arm, collapsed into the pool. When she awoke the next day, her wounds were completely healed. Her magical armor however was missing.