There was an unnamed geyser in the Vast Swamp of Cormyr where the Sharptooth lizardfolk tribe made their encampment.
The geyser lay in a somewhat drier part of the western swamp, where the marshy ground gave way to an area of wet gravel, mud, and even bare rock. It wasnt far from the Skull Staff marker.
The center of the area was a great geyser, its mouth some 30 feet (9 meters) across. Preceded by ground shaking and an explosive burst, the geyser periodically unleashed a great gout of boiling water and steam roughly every 12–24 seconds, rising to a height of 100 feet (30 meters) and showering all in the immediately vicinity.
Here and there, the bare rock was pockmarked by pools of water fed by hot springs. These were boiling hot and produced steam.
Between steam and chthonic vapors, the area was blanketed in a hazy mist that limited visibility to 60 feet (18 meters). The air was muggy, humid and warm, and smelled of sulfur.
In early Eleint of the Year of Lightning Storms, 1374 DR, Chieftain Kessessek led a war party of Sharptooth, Blackscale, and Poison Dusk lizardfolk into Shadowscale territory to set an ambush at the Skull Staff, while he and other Sharptooths made camp at the geyser. The ambushers returned with adventurers in service to Mystra investigating the false Temple of Mystra and Sharran activities. Kessessek parlayed with the group at the geyser camp, but they attacked by seven Shadowscales and a grell seeking to kill the priest-chief. The Sharptooths fled but the adventurers prevailed, for which the Sharptooths were grateful.
During the time of Sharptooth occupation, the lizardfolk erected small huts fashioned from branches and reeds around the area. The lizardfolk used the hot springs for cooking such delicacies as snail-and-eel soup.
CategoryGeysers
CategorySprings
CategoryLocations in the Vast Swamp
CategoryLocations in Cormyr
CategoryLocations in Interior Faerûn
CategoryLocations in Faerûn
CategoryLocations on Toril
CategoryLocations in the Eastern Heartlands
mnpef7gscm8nq241yrdblkj802fi185