The Empire Plague was a terrible disease that ravaged and destabilized southeast Faerûn in the -4 century DR. It spread further and faster than any prior disease in Faerûns history,
The disease was spread by rats, and proliferated quickly around the Shining Sea owing to such rats infesting Calishite merchant ships.
The Empire Plague was highly contagious. Plague victims were recognizable by their red and bleeding eyes and by the weeping purple sores on their bodies.
The disease was very dangerous. As many as 3 in 10 people living in Calimshan, the Lake of Steam, Lapaliiya, Tashalar, and some Chultan ports died of the Empire Plague, including a third of the population of the city of Calimport. The disease claimed 4 in 10 members of Calimshans ruling class, including the reigning Syl-pasha, Khalid el Axash, and his heirs.
The plague started in the , along the southern coast of the Shining Sea before quickly spreading all around it. However, the city failed to burn, and so the Syl-pasha was forced to abandon Calimport. By the next year, Calimport had come to be known as the "Rogues City", and was home mostly to escaped slaves, necromancers, rogues, and Talontar clerics intent on pillaging the city to raise a temple to Talona. By this time, Calimshan had already begun to blame Jhaamdath for the plague.
Two years after fleeing plague-stricken Lapaliiya, Lapal refugees founded Lhesper in the .
The plague ravaged the Shining Sea region for five years. It struck Calimshans imperial holdings hard, quickly causing their influence in the region to crumble and their control over their colonies in the Lake of Steam to be lost. While local rulers across the empire managed to maintain order throughout the plague, many of them began to assert themselves as independent city-states as they restricted trade to keep out any potential plague carriers. 
When the disease finally subsided in the , Syl-pasha Akkab el Evyrtaan declared all residents of the Rogues City to be either plague-carriers or traitors to Calimshan, initiating a bloody purge of Calimport. By the end of the month of Hammer, the only survivors of Rogues City are those who fled into the undercity.
Even as of the , Lapaliiya remained weakened from the outbreak, thus leaving them vulnerable when the yuan-ti of Serpentes decided to declare war on them.