Gangrene, or darkrot, was the death of body tissues caused by prolonged lack of blood flow, characterized by putrification, foul smell, and blackened color.
Gangrene was considered one of the most dangerous natural diseases as it could be contracted via a simple piercing or slashing wound if left untreated. Gangrene could set in a short period of time as 24 hours. Frostbite was just as dangerous. Frozen tissue stopped blood flow which eventually led to gangrene.
Some dangerous undead creatures like angels of decay and plague blights could spread gangrene with a mere touch. Some living creatures, such as shadowdrakes were known to inflict darkrot.
Some rare and unlucky individuals who wronged the Vistani folk of Barovia were sentenced to death by some of the most horrific way. One such death was inflicted upon a criminal via a full-body gangrene.
Darkrot was a common danger in the Rat Hills outside the City of Splendors, Waterdeep.
Once gangrene set in, afflicted flesh sprouted blackened patches within one or two days after infection. Within two to twelve days, the breathing of the afflicted became labored and hissing. As the infection spread, their bodies weakened until they reached the full-system shock as early as seven days after infection. If left untreated, death was inevitable.
The spell of Talonas blessing could ward off gangrene or stop its spread. The spell required the cleric to touch the afflicted body part.
Comfrey root was a healing herb that possessed some curative properties that could stave the spread of gangrene. Herbal treatments for gangrene required thrice daily ingestion of dangerously potent herbs as well as frequent observation by a healer.
thumb|A set of amputation saws – a sure cure for the dreaded darkrot.Once the rot set in, the only non-magical cure was amputation, with death being the only alternative. When performed in a controlled environment, amputation was performed using amputation saws. Each limb or appendage requited a separate tool, all professionally forged in Procampur and purchasable from the Auroras Whole Realms Catalogue. Separate saws were used to remove fingers, arms, legs, and trunk sections a special joint cutter was required in some cases, while snips were required to amputate for fleshy sections. The surgery required tourniquets and gauze as it produced a lot of blood. Healers recommended the subjects of the surgeries to be very drunk to dull the pain.
A holy spring of Eldath – Sweetwater, that flowed among the rocks in the forest not far east of The Standing Stone, was known to wash away and neutralize all known poisons and diseases, including such afflictions as mummy rot and darkrot.
* Athan, who was entrusted with the Gauntlets of Moander by Elminster was tortured by the Cult of the Dragon and his wounds turned to rot. He was rescued by the Veiled Ones and, eventually, had his grave wounds healed via Mystra healing blessings.
* Halana Shauluth, the proprietor of aptly-named Halana Shauluths bakery in Amphail. She lost her hand to gangrene, which ended her adventuring career and led her to open the popular and successful bakery business.
* Yousouf, of Yousoufs Grocery a retired adventurer whose friend and healer Ihre was forced to amputate his gangrenous toes following nasty frostbite.