Winterchill fever, also known as windchill fever, winter fever, pneumonia, or simply winter chill, was a well-known disease in Faerûn, and was one of the so-called Five Fevers.
For humanoids, the disease was transmissible through the air, and symptoms manifested within 6 days. 
Extended exposure to the cold could also cause the disease, especially if precautions to stay warm were not taken. In cold climates, ordinary horses were prone to catch and die of the disease in a matter of days if pushed to travel. It was advised to ride heartier mounts, such as Rashemaar ponies, in such climates.
Sufferers of winterchill fever experienced fever but it could alternatively lead to death.
Non-magical treatment of pneumonia required thrice daily ingestion of dangerously potent herbs under the frequent observation of a healer.
Pneumonia was a major concern for travelers and their mounts in the cold reaches of Rashemen.
Irithra Dawntanthra, a Magister who reigned in the 7 century DR, lost her mother to a winter fever. It also claimed the life of Iriskree, mentor to another Magister, Ohland Grethgar, who reigned in the 13 century DR.
Amry Wolover, builder of the infamous Wolovers Keep in the Veilstone Peaks, lost his wife to winterchill fever.
Winterchill fever took the life of Urda Malo, famous for establishing the Eveningstar Bakery.
Lathintel of Athkatla, author of the Libram of Lathintel, died circa the  of a winter fever.
Lady Maraeve Skyhawk, a shrewd politician who was instrumental in raising the Skyhawk family to prominence in Ravens Bluff, died of a winter fever.
In the , Eaerdran Tarmagus&mdasha Waterdhavian businessman who ran the House of Tarmagus&mdashexperienced what he called the "Big Change" in his life when his mother passed away from winterchill fever.
The Waterdhavian adventurer Tzarrakyn the Younger lost the grandparents who raised him to a winter fever when he was fourteen years old.
During the mid-to-late 14 century DR, the "Comptors Hole" at the Nevin Street Comptor prison in Ravens Bluff was infamous for the droves of prisoners who died of winterchill fever and frostbite during the winter months.
In the , Lord Randal Morn of Daggerdale died from pneumonia that he caught while on one of his celebrated hunting trips.
In the , Lord Deremoz Keskrel of the Marsember Keskrels died of winterchill fever.
Mreljassa Belasko, a government clerk in Luthcheq who ascended both to overseeing the citys harbor as well as settling its legal disputes in the 15 century DR, died of a winter fever.