The Beholder language was the language spoken by the many-eyed monsters of the same name, as well as beholderkin. The beholders of Faerun knew their own language as Quevquel or "Speech", distinguishing it from telepathic communication.
Beyond beholders and beholderkin, this was a common secondary language among some spacefaring races, such as the aartuk and space mimics.
Beholder was also somewhat common as a secondary language among some specialty priests in the Realms, more specifically those who tended towards learning the tongues of monstrous creatures. These included the dreadmasters of the Church of Bane and the noroghor of Abbathor.
The beholder language was difficult for most humanoids to understand and speak, but not impossible. It was a guttural tongue with much lip-smacking, gurgling, and slobbering. A long conversation between two beholders (assuming they didnt immediately try to kill each other) quickly covered their surroundings with spit.
Beholders normally named themselves within the first year of their lives, Their names were long and complicated, and pronouncing them produced much saliva. Beholders that could allow themselves to dwell in humanoid settlements, establishing themselves as the unseen leaders for guilds of lesser beings, adopted more easily pronounceable names in their minions language.
Example Chosen names
*Barixis, Blorghathus, Chelm, Derukoskai, Eddalx, Famax, Gazriktak, Irixis, Irv, Ixahinon,  Jantroph, Khoa, Khuxristul, Kreskalat, Lanuhsh, Murlbalbluthk, Nagish, Orox Qeqtoxii, Qualnus, Ralakor, Selthdrych, Sespetoxri, Sikrewxes, Sokhalsh, Thimnoll, Velxer, Vhalantru, Xanathar, Xeo, Zalshox, Zirlarq, Zommist, Zulnethrak
Example Nicknames
*Cinderglare, Eyebiter, Gobblegut, Manglecramps, Orbius, Slatherjaw
The beholder language had no word for the name of their species and the eye tyrants didnt even recognize the term "beholder" as anything more than the assigned label of inferior creatures. In the rare situations where a beholder befriended another, they normally called the other by its own name, perhaps the greatest form of respect they could show.
The suffix -hurr or -urr indicated an illness. The suffix -rakk or -akk indicated a temporary condition, and could apply to something such as the weather.
Beholders had possessed many different languages over the long ages of their existence, although within minutes of being born, most could speak the beholder language. Quevquel was the swifter and simpler version of an elder, Faerûnian beholder language, the largely forgotten "Uibilaqthraxx" or the "True Tongue".
For example, the word "sarruin" in Quevquel, referred to tiny beholderkin (such as gazers), and could be translated to mean "little-kin". This word was either descended or borrowed from the Uibilaqthraxx word "lurlukloklahassarruin".
* Bryth Moonaxe, an ancient half-dwarf champion.