Mulhorandi was a regional tongue of the Old Empires, and the official language of Mulhorand. A variation of Mulhorandi was the official language of Thay.
Mulhorandi was commonly in use between the River Thazarim and the River of Swords and between the Alamber Sea and Gbor Nor. Rashemen, and the elves from Sildëyuir and the Yuirwood.
Mulhorandi was highly inflected, that is, it relied on word affixes&mdashsuffixes or prefixes&mdashinstead of word order to convey grammatical meaning. To speakers of many other languages, it sounded slow and thick. It was a slowly evolving language and maintained much of the flavor of its earliest forms over time. Priestly rituals had a strong effect on everyday speech.
In its earliest form, Mulhorandi used a logographic system of writing, with pictographs to represent concepts. and in the ruins of the fortress Maskana in the Raurin Desert.) Over the millennia, the written form of the language was simplified yet still contained tens of thousands of pictographs. The average Mulhorandi citizen had about 3,000 of these pictographs memorized, while the priests knew far more.
At some stage in history, the god Thoth taught the Mulan the alphabet of the Celestial language, and by the late 14 century DR, in most areas where Mulhorandi was spoken, its speakers used this alphabet however, the Thayan dialect used the Infernal alphabet instead, as a direct insult to the god-kings of Mulhorand, as does the cult of Set.
Mulhorandi was in the Mulani languages group within the Rauric languages family. It was related to both Thayan and Muhjuri.
Common Mulhorandi surnames included Ankhalab, Anskuld, Fezim, Hahpet, Nathandem, Sepret, Siasobek, Uuthrakt, and Zianhur. Surnames starting with "Sia" or "Zia" indicated a bloodline from one of the gods.
First names for males included Aoth, Bareris, Ehput-ki, Kethoth, Mumed, Ramas, So-Kehur, Thazar-De, and Urhur. Example names for females included Arizima, Chathi, Nephis, Nulara, Murithi, Sefris, Thola, Umara, and Zolis. Tieflings from the Old Empires often had Mulhorandi given names.
 aybtep  horned
 bahati  wise soul
 het  smoke
 kamen  dark
 katsu  star-born
 hohl  dark-eyed