The Neogi language, which was properly called Kazzjakn, Some believed it to be an extinct language, falling out of use among the neogi in favor adopting the languages of those they commonly traded with, such as Common, Undercommon, and Terran.Lords of Madness is a setting agnostic book and may not be representative of Realms canon, in contrast to Demihumans of the Realms, which does state they have their own language. Lords of Madness does reflect the design decision from 3 edition onward of not giving the neogi their own language, however, pruning of racial languages was widespread post-2 edition, therefore this cannot be taken as a sign that their language is in fact extinct within Realms canon. 
The Neogi language was a common secondary language among aartuk, space mimics, and elves of the Elven Imperial Fleet. In terms of geographical reach, Neogi was common among inhabitants of Realmspace and in much of the Astromundi Cluster. In the Cluster this language was so widespread as to have nearly as many speakers as Common.
It was generally discouraged for non-native speakers to attempt saying the names of the Neogi deities, for an incorrect pronunciation was considered among neogi to be an egregious offense warranting torture and death.
Sibilants were quite prominent in Kazzjakn, with speakers of the language producing sounds reminiscent of whirring thri-kreen or the hissing of snakes. And the way in which words were structured and ordered in the language was considered by other creatures to be complex.
Being the language of a sexless race, Kazzjakn lacked gendered words. For example, instead of "god" or "goddess" the language only had an equivalent of "deity".
Jikqu
"Gray Waste"
Kajkz
 The name given to the neogi homeworld within their legends.
Kajkzxi
 a sort of overgod and dead power responsible for creating the rest of the Neogi pantheon.
Karish
"Abyss"
Killix
 The neogi god of assassins, death, murder, and poison.
Kipik
"Baator"
Kizid"
"Favored of deities" an honorific suffix that neogi priests commonly added to their names.
Krtx
 The neogi god of war, brutality, and strength.
Pkk
 The neogi god of fear and tyranny.
Thrigki
 The neogi god of "love", though their portfolio would be more accurately described as envy and jealousy by other creatures.
Tzenkil
 The neogi god of torture, pain, and suffering.
Yrthni maadi
 "great old master", the name for a late stage of life in the neogi lifecycle.