Angharradh (
Angharradh appeared as a female elf of otherworldly beauty and grace who shined with gems the color of starlight. She was gloriously gowned, but in war times donned a gleaming silver suit of elven plate mail.
Due to the nature of her creation, Angharradh exhibited a fierce protectiveness and strong resolve.
As the consort of Corellon, Angharradh had a strong, maternal interest in Eilistraee and Mielikki.
Angharradh was second only to Corellon among the Seldarine and she often worked closely with the other elven deities. Deities outside of the elven pantheon whom Angharradh called her allies were Berronar Truesilver, Chauntea, Cyrrollalee, Eilistraee, Lurue, Mielikki, Milil, Mystra, Selûne, Sharindlar, Sheela Peryroyl, Silvanus, Sune and Yondalla. Her foes included the traditional opponents of the Seldarine, such as the drow pantheon (with the exception of Eilistraee), the Deities of Fury and the goblinoid deities.
The church of Angharradh was essentially the unified face of the three separate, but closely allied, churches of Aerdrie, Hanali and Sehanine. Most clerics of Angharradh were affiliated with at least one aspect of the Three, being considered wise women and sages, often being consulted when important issues arose. Clerics and druids of Angharradh prayed for their spells at a time of their choosing, but it must be the time when they pray to one of the three goddesses. The clergy celebrated the holy days and important ceremonies of one of the Three, depending upon which aspect they venerated.
The only holy day celebrated exclusively by the clergy was the Melding of the Three, held quadrennially on Cinnaeloscor (more commonly known as Shieldmeet). While this holy day was more generally observed by elves in honor of Corellon, moon elves celebrated the aspects of Angharradh and their unification that led to peace in Arvandor and elven realms.
Before the elves walked the forests of Faerûn, Angharradh arose from the great battle between the Seldarine and the followers of Araushnee. Aerdrie, Hanali and Sehanine came together to heal Corellon Larethian after he was felled by Eilistraee who was fooled by Araushnee. As they did so, they formed Angharradh, serving alongside Corellon as the Queen of Arvandor.