RepraApophis
Apep, also known as Apophis, was a serpentine dragon demigod of fire and snakes who was believed by his enemies to be a manifestation of evil or chaotic evil. until that aspect was subsumed by the deity Sseth.
Apeps body measured roughly  in length.
Apep was said by both his enemies and worshipers to have no creed but destruction. Particularly the destruction of the Pharaonic gods, their temples, their clerics, and their worshipers.
Apeps avatar form had a poisonous bite, could breath fire, and had a scaly hide that only +3 or greater weapons could injure. Non-magical weaponry would shatter if it struck his hide.
He was capable of creating any potion, scroll, or wand containing a spell from the Fire domain. As well as weapons with the enchantments flaming or flaming burst. But such items could not exceed a value of 4,500 gold pieces.
Some of the many spells Apeps avatar form was capable of casting included the following, with spells related to animals affecting only snakes and other reptiles
 animal growth, animal shapes, animal trance, blasphemy, burning hands, create undead, creeping doom, desecrate, dispel good, elemental swarm (fire only), eyebite, fire seeds, fire shield, fire storm, greater magic fang, incendiary cloud, magic circle against good, magic fang, poison, produce flame, protection from good, resist elements (fire or ice only), shapechange, summon monster IX (as evil spell only), unholy aura, unholy blight, and wall of fire.
Apep dwelled in the Abyss,Though this was done by the worshipers of the Pharaonic gods, there is nothing to indicate the practice was similarly carried out by worshipers of the Mulhorandi gods.
Apep was served by hordes of demons, most of them sharing fiery or serpentine qualities. He was also served by numerous flame snakes, a species of serpent that were related to him.
He was chiefly an enemy of Pharaonic pantheon, the group of gods that would one day become the Mulhorandi pantheon. He was once a servant of the Pharaonic god Set, fighting the goddess Bast on a daily basis in an effort to destroy the solar barge of Re, but Set eventually allied with the rest of the Pharaonic gods against him.
His greatest enemies among the Pharaonic deities were Osiris and Bast.
The worshipers of Apep were typically deranged, corrupt, or otherwise evil beings. Worship of him was more cultic than a proper structured religion &mdash his worshipers carried no holy symbols, wore no priestly vestments, and met their fellow cultists only in secrecy. This was all because if any of the Pharaonic gods were to notice their worship of Apep, they would have wrath brought down upon them.
Apeps followers believed that his only creed was destruction and thus the ultimate goal they strove towards was an end to existence.
Most of his worshipers were humans and intelligent snakes, especially the latter under his aspect Repra. A few evil creatures served him as clerics, particularly serpentine creatures, such as dragons, nagas, and yuan-ti. Though worship by yuan-ti occurred on worlds other than Toril. Among openly evil creatures these clerics flaunted their position and power, often constructing elaborate temples to Apep in secluded mountains or deep in deserts. These typically featured multitudes of snakes and serpentine motifs.
In the Domains of Dread, Apep was worshiped in the Island of Terror known as Sebua under the alias Apophis. There a manifestation of Apep stood within a temple dedicated to him, guarding the heart of the domains darklord.