Berronar Truesilver () was the intermediate deity of safety, home, and family in the Morndinsamman. The Revered Mother was the matriarch of the dwarven pantheon, exemplifying the gentler aspects of dwarven character, such as mercy and generosity, while still demonstrating their iconic pragmatism and determination.
Berronar appeared as either a  or  tall dwarf with a brown beard braided into four rows. Berronar had the power to take the shape of an aged dwarf (of any sex) or even a short and stooped human crone, and when in this lesser form, none, whether mortal or god, could detect her divine nature or powers.
Berronar was a kind and caring goddess with strong maternal love for all dwarves (and even dwarven allies) who valued compassion, tradition, fidelity, and family. With a merry disposition and hearty laugh constantly at the ready, Berronars skills of persuasion were such that she could usually bring two foes to understand one another and set aside their differences. The Revered Mother was gentle in speech and ever-forgiving of her children, divine or otherwise.
At the same time, the indomitable Mother Goddess never wavered or despaired in the face of adversity or loss. She could be strict and even fierce when the situation warranted, and would go to almost any extreme to protect the dwarves.
The Revered Mother acted as an authority figure for the other dwarven gods and she used her skills in negotiation and her calm demeanor as a way to keep the pantheon unified when tensions rose. Traditionalists of dwarven culture claimed that without these qualities the Morndinsamman and perhaps even the entire dwarven race would not have survived their slow decline. This decline finally seemed to have reversed with the coming of the Thunder Blessing in the 14th century. In this new age, the Revered Mother gave council to Faerûns most trusted orthodox dwarven clerics as a way to aid Moradin in charting the dwarven destiny.
Berronar was too focused on the dwarven pantheon to give much attention to outsiders, but she was on friendly terms with the lead goddesses of friendly races such as the elves, gnomes, and halflings. She worked closely together with Sharindlar to promote love among the dwarves. The Mother of Safety generally ensured that a relation formed became a healthy and loving marriage, while Sharindlar oversaw the earlier courtship. As an ideal wife to Moradin, she was one of the few he trusted completely. Clangeddin Silverbeard and Gorm Gulthyn were friends, but she was reserved towards Marthammor Duin, Dugmaren Brightmantle, and Deep Duerra. She hated the orc, goblinoid, and giant deities nearly as much as her husband did.
Berronar grieved for her failure to compromise with the dark cousins of the dwarves, the duergar and derro, though in truth there was nothing she could have done for them.
thumb|The holy symbol of Berronar Truesilver.
Berronars clerics were known as faenor, which translated as "those of the home". Faenor served as the guardians and protectors of dwarven clans. They archived the lore, traditions, and family histories of the dwarves. By acting as teachers and healers, they aimed to further the good health and good character of the dwarven race. Serving as the moral compass of the dwarves, they could be very conservative and they did not tolerate foolhardiness and controversial ideas in young dwarves. Their patience was definitely taxed by the number of twins from the Thunder Blessing.
In the rigid church structure, every cleric knew their place, and every clans church was built to look alike. This was done so visitors from other clans knew exactly where they fit in. Berronar ran her church like a strict, but loving mother.
Rarely did faenor follow alternative paths, and the few who did usually became fighters and dwarven defenders.
Despite recent events, the number of dwarves who turned their back on Berronar and Moradin was steadily growing, believing the couple led a too-conservative philosophy.
The faenor prayed for spells at dawn. They organized many mundane rituals for the dwarf communities, but were best known for their marriages. Their reputation in organizing marriage ceremonies was so widespread that even some non-dwarves asked a faenor to conduct their marriage rite. Each year, offerings of silver were made to Berronar, usually coupled with a small white flower so as to show appreciation for Berronars motherly love towards all dwarves.
Midwinter Day was one of two significant holy days for the faenor. On this day, they held fantastic celebrations below ground.
Midsummer Night was the second significant holy day to the faithful of Berronar. This night they organized celebrations above ground. They also invited members of friendly neighboring communities and travelers, rarely non-dwarven though.