Freyja
Freya, or Freyal, was an ajami deity, worshiped by the efreet of the City of Brass of the Elemental Plane of Fire and a Vanir
Freya was a goddess of sensual love, fiery passion, magic, human fertility, and she looked after women in labor. In her humanoid form, she appeared to be a beautiful, voluptuous elven woman of .
An early depiction of Freya.
The goddess granted her followers clerical abilities and divine spells. Freyas clergy honored their deity by practicing arts of war and arcane magics in equal share. Many of her priests were also sorcerers or wizards.
Temples and shrines dedicated to Freya were often richly decorated with gold – the deitys gift to the planes. The buildings that housed her temples and shrines always had their main entrances facing the setting sun, signifying Odurs return to Freya at every sunset. Temples usually held a secure display of expensive jewelry – offerings to Freya. To celebrate the deity of battle, temples often contained armories, training grounds, as well as libraries of arcane lore and laboratories.
All visitors of the temples were eagerly and warmly greeted by priests and attending worshipers. Visitors were expected to provide an offering of jewelry or show truthful reverence and passion. Other types of offerings accepted by the temples included arcane lore, magic items, and songs.
Most of Freyas proxies were female. Lhana Tomsdallihr was one of the goddesss favorites in the 14 century DR.
Freyas traveling clergy bore the same name as her magic – seithr, female traveling fortune tellers. The seithr had the ability to shapeshift into horses and gained a bad reputation for committing "acts against the law for human beings."
Freyas worshipers were organized into highly enthusiastic cults that operated in exuberance and revered passions. The faith welcomed diversity, both racial and cultural, and aimed to promote beauty in magic and find magic in beauty. Those who sought to join one of Freyas cults had to demonstrate passion and ardor for the elements of the goddess portfolio, and their physical appearance or physical beauty mattered not.
The inhabitants of Alfheim, who worshiped Freya and her twin brother, celebrated Freyas Fest, an autumn festival that celebrated the rebirth of land and fertility. The celebration consisted of a feast with wild revelries and dances that lasted through the night.
Freyas twin brother was named Frey, and her father – Njord. According to some myths, she taught Aesir the Vanir witchcraft. Freyas husband was Odur.