Inanna was one of two Untheric goddesses of love and war (the other was her "daughter", Ishtar). Her manifestation on Toril was killed during the Orcgate Wars. Her symbol was a shepherds staff.
Inanna manifested as a beautiful human female. She wielded a small double-bladed brass axe that caused any armor it hit to crumble into dust. Her breast plates negated any damage against heat, cold, fangs, or claws. She drove a chariot pulled by seven flying lions in battle.
Inannas realm, known as the Jealous Heart, existed in Phlegethos, the 4 layer of the Nine Hells in the Great Wheel cosmology. before the magic goddess moved it to the 3 layer Minauros. Within her realm there were planar conduits to reach the worlds where she was venerated.
The Jealous Heart was a great field covered in crimson dust, crisscrossed by rivers of blood that nourished the sweet fruits of the trees, and tinted with reddish light that danced through the air. Though the physical land was not fiery, it might look that way and certainly felt that way.
Inannas was the passion known in the caress of steel or flesh, and any who entered her realm succumbed to a desire for one or other other within a day, although by the end of the next the feelings would swing back to the other extreme. These feelings, while not cold, were rational, with everyone still having goals and plans on how to achieve them. The main city, Eridan, was a place where the lovers of the realm took defense against the warriors one day and tried to cut their way out of the city while the warriors fought their way in the next.
Inanna was once the wife of Enlil, but he set her aside, leaving her to seethe under his rule.
The goddess Ishtar was born from Inanna. Once they were the same being, but as Inannas people grew more civilized, her pantheon split in two, with new aspects of the older gods becoming entities in their own right.
Inanna presumably came to Toril with the other Untheric deities aboard the Galley of the Gods. She was killed by one of the Orcish gods in , and her body was laid to rest in a God-Tomb in Unther.