Ioun was an interloper goddess of knowledge, skill, and prophecy
On Nerath, Ioun held dominion over the domains of fate, knowledge, and skill.
According to the World Axis model, Ioun resided in the Bright City of Hestavar in the Astral Plane, along with Erathis and Pelor.
Ioun was held as an important deity within the Dawn War, and Exandrian pantheons. She was worshiped by sages, seers, scribes, and tacticians, as well as students of the arcane arts.
Iouns aim was to distribute knowledge in all forms. She was also a goddess of magic—not of the arcane power itself but instead of its academic study.
Ioun preferred to dwell in her tower than to take an active role in the affairs of other deities, and she sometimes held court in the main hall of her tower. She was also known for wandering the multiverse and, according to some, she even traveled into the future to record events yet to come in her secret book of prophecies.
Ioun was a rival of the Oerthian lesser deity Vecna, as she saw knowledge as something to be shared with everyone, not to be kept a secret.
Ioun also opposed the Oerthian deity Tharizdun, as she was aware of his secret and his intentions of destroying the multiverse.
In the time before the Dawn War, Ioun and the Oerthian deities Tharizdun and Pelor discovered the Living Gate that separated the Far Realm from the Astral Sea. The three gods peered through it, learning terrible secrets that changed them forever. Corruptive energy from the Far Realm seeped out into the multiverse, which in turn led to the formation of psionic power. Some time later, Pelor and Ioun managed to seal the barrier once again.
That latent psionic power permeated the world of Toril and affected the development of numerous civilizations, including the ancient empire of Jhaamdath and the wilds of the Vilhon Reach.
Ioun would later send her servant, the deva Demascus, to thwart the worshipers of Tharizdun who were trying to free their god from his prison. This resulted in Demascus eventually being sent into the world of Toril. Its implied that she was aware that this was going to happen.
It was believed by both Demascus and an avatar of Oghma that Ioun was able to influence events in Toril, even if she was in another continuum.
It was believed by some that Ioun was the creator of the fabled Ioun stones, which she created to distribute knowledge among her followers.
* Demascus, the Sword of the Gods, was her only known servant in the Realms.