Isis, (Pronounce|EYE|sis|refs= was a deity of the Mulhorandi pantheon. She was a kind goddess who took joy in revealing new discoveries to her followers.
Isis appeared as a Mulan woman in a white linen dress and sandals. She also wore an ornate headdress and jewelry.
Isis could fly and communicate with other members of the Mulhorandi pantheon over great distances. Her voice charmed those who heard it, and her will could stun those around her. She could harm her enemies with a simple touch. Those who had known the love of another could not harm the Lady of all Love.
Isiss will was often demonstrated through nature and the actions of white creatures and animals, such as unicorns, rabbits, and hawks. When pleased, Isis might appear as a peaceful rain. When angry, she would take the form of a storm. Isis might appear in a flow of running water to make her wisdom known or visit and bless two lovers. Isis might appear as a tree that grew and disappeared in the length of a single day, signaling the start of the growing season. She might appear before a warrior facing great odds in her service, bestowing upon the man a single kiss.
In the Great Wheel cosmology Isis was said to have two divine realms, one in Amoria known as Quietude and one in Heliopolis known as Gizekhtet,
To those who believed in the Great Wheel cosmology, Isis was said to only come to Quietude during the spring season in Mulhorand, in order to overseer the course of that nations rivers and its conditions for planting. Towards the end of summer, she would return to her spouse in Heliopolis.
Isis was the daughter of Geb and Nut. She was the sister of Thoth and wife of Osiris, as well as the mother of Horus (later Horus-Re). Isis and Nephthys were twins.
The non-evil members of the Mulhorandi pantheon were allies of Isis, as was Sharess. The Bountiful Lady considered Chauntea a confidant and friend.
Due to their similar portfolios and differing alignments, Isis often found herself in conflict with Sebek.
Outside of the Mulhorandi deities, she was on mildly good terms with Mystra and in opposition to the goddess Shar, being opposed to all usage of the Shadow Weave.
400x400px|thumb|A priestess of Isis.
Worship of Isis was seen most often among the common people of Mulhorand.
The clergy of the church of Isis was primarily composed of women of Mulan descent, though a few half-elves also followed the Bountiful Lady. These priestesses must study arcane magics as well as divine.
Clerics of Isis spent much of their time administering to the agricultural needs of Mulhorand, as well as the needs of typical home life.
right|250px|thumb|Holy Symbol of Isis.
Temples dedicated to Isis remained open to the weather, and flowing water was often incorporated in their construction. The center of the church of Isis was the Mystic Cornucopia, located in the Great Vale. Additional major temples included the Temple of Bountiful Joy in Skuld and the Spring of Eternal Hope in Shussel, a city located in the nation of Unther.
Clerics of Isis typically wore a white linen dress with sandals. They usually wore a wig over their shaved heads, and painted three blue circles on their forehead as a symbol of their status as a priest of Mulhorand. When preparing for combat, priestess of Isis tended to shy from the use of armor. They otherwise equipped themselves practically for the situation.
Divine spellcasters of Isis prayed for spells before the first meal of the day.
Organizations sponsored by the church of Isis assisted others through their mastery of magic.
*Sisters of Life This order served with followers of Anhur and Osiris as members of the Guardians of Skuld.
*Shield of the Lady These spellcasters joined and assisted the adventuring companies that operated within Mulhorand.
The clergy of the church of Isis celebrate a number of rituals on a daily basis.
*Greengrass Followers of Isis celebrated the completion of sowing the fields.
*Highharvestide Celebrants thanked Isis and Osiris for a successful harvest.
thumb|right|The resurrection of Osiris.
Isis, with the assistance of Nephthys, resurrected Osiris when he was murdered by Set.
During the Second Sundering, Isis and other deities from the pantheon returned in the form of demigods and led the Mulhorandi uprising against the Imaskari, in a manner similar to how the Chosen manifested in other regions. As of 1489 DR, Mulhorand was led by the returned pantheon, who temporarily set their differences aside for the good of the Mulhorandi people.