Queen of the Demonweb Pits
Queen of Darkness
Queen of the Drow
Dark Mother
Mother of Lusts
The Lady of Shadows
The Lady of Chaos
The Mistress of Lies
Weaver of Destiny
Weaver of Webs
The Weaver
Fleshcarver
Spider Bitch
Lolth ( ), or Lloth, known as the Queen of Spiders as well as the Queen of the Demonweb Pits, was the most influential goddess of the drow, within the pantheon of the Dark Seldarine.
Lolth could appear either as a  diameter, crimson-eyed black widow spider, or a  tall, beautiful female drow often garbed entirely in clinging spiders or sometimes in artful, drow chainmail dresses or tunics. The form most commonly found in the Abyss however, thought to be her true form, was a combination of the others, a giant spider with the head of a coldly beautiful female drow.
Lolth was a goddess of cold cruelty not out of place in the darkest depths of the endless Abyss, and toying with everyone from her minions to her victims.
Lolth demanded absolute fealty and obedience from all drow,
Despite her demands for loyalty, those who blindly obeyed Lolths demands would find themselves quickly led to their deaths. In truth, Lolths capricious nature meant that there were few hard-and-fast rules, and much uncertainty as to her desires. The successful had to pay attention to her ever-changing wants, for her favor was fickle, The Spider Queen was technically capable of displays of kindness and aiding those she fancied, and would always give one chance for the disfavored to redeem themselves, but this usually meant a dangerous mission and in others might just mean silently watching their next move. She could never be relied on and her ultimate motivation was almost always manipulative.
Lolths promotion of infighting amongst her worshipers led many to believe she was insane, and this assessment was not baseless. Indeed, ever since her fall from grace her sanity had frayed and fractured until she became the petty, conniving monster she was commonly known as. Her will was not merely fluid, but often times contradictory, Ironically, for all her demands for obedience, nothing demanded her attention and admiration more than treachery, even towards herself (if only temporarily). Guile and political ruthlessness were the signs of her favorite servants, and she ultimately admired ambition more than she did loyalty.
Lolth disdained planar beings less powerful than herself, viewing them as either pawns or foes. At the same time, she held those more powerful than herself in contempt, coveting the status of the most powerful beings and seeking to ascend to their station through deception, betrayal, and murder.
370x370px|The Dark Seldarine, with Lolth in the center.
Lolth was the leader of the Dark Seldarine, but was opposed to varying degrees by all other members of it. She was the mother of both Eilistraee and Vhaeraun, along with Vandria, though the latter never supported the acts of her mother or joined the Dark Seldarine.
On one hand, Lolth encouraged her sons rivalry with her, for it appealed to her love of chaos. On the other hand, her sons successes at swaying the drow to his cause of destroying her, her followers, and her version of society, led her to consider him a threat. (the largest on the surface), and was an ever expanding force, to the point that Lolth considered Vhaeraun her real enemy and rival.
The two had no common ground Lolth promoted favoritism towards females, while the Masked Lord urged his followers to cooperate with surface elves Lolth ordered her followers to keep drow society stagnant in every regard, while Vhaeraun attracted those who wanted change in their societal progress, economic growth, and territorial expansion while Vhaeraun encouraged settling the surface.
Vhaerauns masked traitors, clerical spies Lolth had mistakenly believed members of her own clergy, were enough of a problem that she considered their discovery, and warning her clergy of their existence, worthy of her personal attention. Indeed, Lolth, who normally gave worshipers of other drow gods a second chance on being found out, made an exception for Vhaerauns followers, who were killed right away.
right|The holy symbol of Lolth, Queen of Spiders.
The other members of the Dark Seldarine were generally of minor importance and Lolths behavior towards them could be described as derisive.
She considered her daughter Eilistraee to be an inconsequential fool, a moody girl who could be easily manipulated into serving her ends. The epithet used by Eilistraees followers to describe Lolth was "the Tyrant Poisoner".
Ghaunadaur was a different matter. She feared the possibility that he could sway the drow towards his cause, but he did not care enough for drow matters to attract many of them.
Kiaransalee and Selvetarm were her allies (and the only ones in the drow pantheon), who acted as her servants. The latter was Lolths grandchild and her (self-appointed) champion. Selvetarm was practically enslaved to her, but was quite comfortable under her rule,
Lolth was an enemy of the Seldarine, especially of Corellon Larethian, her former husband, Sehanine Moonbow, for the part she played in foiling her scheme to overthrow Corellon, and Fenmarel Mestarine, who was her partner in adultery but ultimately did not join her betrayal. While her hatred was deep, she did not actually put any significant effort into acting on it, preferring to keep the drow engaged in deep infighting, rather than united against those whom she considered her enemies.
She once helped Gruumsh to attempt to kill Corellon Larethian, but after he failed, they later became enemies. She also was the enemy of a long list of Underdark deities.
Lolth had occasional alliances with Loviatar and Malar. Some believed there may have been an ancient pact between Lolth and the duergar deity Laduguer, due to his races use of steeders and her having never been known to use them as minions.
Lolths follower base was varied. It mainly consisted of drow, She gained a few elven followers, and tried to gain more worshipers by assuming the aspect of Moander, a deity of rot.
Lolth drove her worshipers into heavy infighting under the pretense of culling the weak, while her actual goals were to hold absolute control over the dark elves, prevent the rise of alternative faiths or ideas, and avoid complacency (even though she found amusement in the strife that plagued her followers communities). However, in the long run, her influence proved to be an obstacle to the growth and success of her drow followers, preventing them from unifying against common enemies or for a common cause.
Any attempt by the drow to emulate Lolth was doomed to fail, for unlike other humanoids, their arachnid deity was without their form or psychology. They were ashamed that they could not fully live up to her demands, and in truth, the Spider Queen was one they could never truly please. Any boon she granted to them was only in service to escalating conflict and causing further strife, and in the end, she cared nothing for them.
Lolths clerics were almost exclusively female (although there were a few males). They represented the rulers of most Lolthite communities, and strictly followed the Spider Queens will, forcing the drow into extreme subservience to their deity, and into the constant state of conflict that dominated their lives. Each priestess strove for the favor of the Spider Queen and was ready to do anything in order to gain status in her goddess eyes. Her clergy sacrificed the living and treasure for her glory. Their vestments were normally adorned with spider motifs. Her rituals required them to wear darker clothes or none at all.
Militant Myrlochar, Order of Soul Spiders
The Militant Myrlochar, sometimes known as the Order of Soul Spiders, was an elite fighting organization composed exclusively of male crusaders, and found in the dark elven cities where Lolth was worshiped and males were allowed entrance into her priesthood. They directly served the reigning Matron Mothers of the city and were employed to kill their targets. They were usually used without pause until they got killed.
Handmaidens of the Spider Queen
The Handmaidens of the Spider Queen were an order of female crusaders. Also called the "Daughters of the Yochlol", they had no ties to specific cities, and were used when Lolth wanted an entire city to brought back into line. At least three times in recorded history did the Handmaidens of the Spider Queen destroy entire drow cities to prevent them from straying too far from Lolth. One of their usual tasks was to terrorize merchants who took Vhaeraun as their patron, as well as settlements run by the followers of Vhaeraun or Ghaunadaurs (or where those faiths were prominent).
Before her fall, Lolth was known as Araushnee, the lesser elven goddess of destiny and artisans. She was consort to Corellon, leader of all the elf deities, Unflinching as the fallen night, she too had played a part in the creation of the earliest elves her cutting jests brought forth tears of laughter from Corellon from which mortal fey were spawned, as did Sehanines arcing acrobatics. Sometimes the laughter between the three was dark and mocking, but more often, it was true and heartfelt.
Araushnee would become the main goddess of the dark elves, whose nightly complexion matched her own, as well as a third child, Vandria Gilmadrith.
The events regarding Lolths rebellion were lost to time and the timelessness of the Feywild, and too distorted by shadows and echoes for anyone to be sure of her first betrayal. Not even the likes of Sehanine or Corellon could say if she had always thought differently to them, or if there had been some kind of inciting incident. Some divinations suggest the troubles dated back to before Arvandor was even complete, when the orc god Gruumsh, Corellons long-standing rival, tried to destroy it. Though she respected his wish to face Gruumsh alone, she secretly admired his rage, and at some point dallied with him.
Whatever the reason or chronology, Araushnee grew jealous of her husband and discontent with her station. Slowly, over the course of her treachery, her connection to the elves would weaken.
During her first attempt, she aided Gruumsh in trying to kill her husband by imbuing the scabbard that he had crafted for his sword with magic that would cause the weapon to shatter during the fight. she knew that Araushnee had tampered with the scabbard, because the Weaver had conducted this very first step of her betrayal during the night, when Sehanines sight could reach her.
Later, Araushnee agitated Malar into attacking the wounded Corellon
Araushnees next move was to gather a host of gods on hostile footing with the Seldarine, forming an army to assault Arvandor and overthrow Corellon. The army itself was so badly organized, that she was confident that they would fail. Her true plan was to give the cursed scabbard back to Corellon, as during the battle that would later unfold, the item would cause arrows shot by Eilistraee to hit his chest instead. According to Lolths plan, that would have killed Corellon while turning her daughter into a scapegoat.
Before the attack by the anti-Seldarine faction was ready, Sehanine confronted Araushnee about her betrayal (as mentioned above, she knew Araushnee to be a traitor), Together, they also made sure that Eilistraee would find and deliver the scabbard to Corellon, and that she would be in his vicinity during the battle.
Once the battle started, the Weavers plan almost went as she expected, supported even further by Ghaunadaurs entrance. When an ogre god charged Corellon, who had been immobilized by the Elder Eye, Eilistraee swiftly fired a few arrows to save her father, but the scabbard drew the projectiles towards the Protector instead, nearly slaying him. However her plan ultimately failed due to Sehanines intervention, as the Lady of Dreams had managed to break out from Vhaerauns prison, albeit at immense cost to herself.
When the elven lord awakened, a trial was called in. Vhaeraun and Eilistraee became members in exile of the Seldarine — willingly in the case of Eilistraee, as she had foreseen that the dark elves would have needed her light and hope in the future. Araushnee meanwhile was stripped of all but a sliver of her divinity and transformed into a tanarri with the form of a giant spider. Corellon could not bring himself to destroy her, and instead banished her to the Abyss, bidding her to join the demons she had come to resemble. Furious for her defeat, she made one last attempt on her lovers life, but was thwarted and bested by her husband. Despite all, the Protector still loved her and still could not bring himself to finish her off, allowing her to escape into the opened portal into the realm of demons.
After her exile, Araushnee took the name "Lolth". She conquered the 66th layer of the Abyss, the Demonweb Pits, for herself. 
After securing control over her layer, she plotted to exact vengeance against Corellon. Being unable to directly strike at him, she planned to be worshiped as a goddess by the elves, bringing misery to them and therefore to their "father". When the moon elf Kethryllia Amarillis came to retrieve her lover in the Abyss during a battle for the city of Sharlarion, Lolth became interested in the world the elf came from, Toril. She sensed the presence of Vhaeraun, at that time the major deity in Ilythiir, and her attention was drawn there. Her fascination grew as she witnessed the Ilythiiri, at the time under KaNarlist, preparing for war when Kethryllia had unknowingly revealed their position to them. Lolth admired the old mages craftiness and he became her first worshiper and consort.
Ilythiir, the southern empire, was much to her liking, as it was richer and more cosmopolitan, but mainly because of the fierceness of its people, of their ambitions, and of their ability to act on those.
300px|The symbol of Lolth, during the Era of Upheaval.
Once in the Underdark, the drow lived in a borderline animal state. With Eilistraees power nearly collapsed due to the loss of so many of her people, and with Vhaerauns, Kiaransalees and Ghaunadaurs power being unable to compete with Lolths, she became the main drow deity. She gathered them together and urged them into the foundation of their first city, Telantiwar. It later destroyed itself through infighting, causing the drow to spread throughout the Underdark.
A thorn in her side was a demon lord called Zanassu, who claimed dominion over spiders. Lolth got rid of him by using Selvetarm, her grandchild who was born from Vhaeraun and Zandilar when the Spider Queens followers attacked the Yuirwood. Lolth convinced Selvetarm that killing the demon would have made Eilistraee, whom had befriended him, and whom he had come to admire, so he fought and defeated Zanassu, but ended up absorbing his power and being bound to Lolths will in the process. Lolth thus solved two problems one of her rivals was gone, and her daughter was prevented from getting an ally.
During the Time of Troubles, apart from appearing in Menzoberranzan and assuming the aspect of Moander to attract more surface elves, humans, and half-elves, Lolth spread information on Zinzerena, a goddess from another world. When she appeared on Toril, Lolth killed her, gaining the portfolios of chaos and assassination, and learning how the distribution and absorption of divine energy worked under Aos new rules.
The Spider Queen fights off surface elves.
As her final move, Lolth tried to kill Ghaunadaur. The attempt failed, as the ooze god proved to be stronger than expected.
In the following century, Lolth enjoyed a position of supremacy among the drow. She did suffer opposition from the Jaezred Chaulssin, the skulkers of Vhaeraun—the term used to describe those members of the church of Vhaeraun who retained divine magic despite their gods death—and the followers of Ghaunadaur. The latter group was however a dying force, at least among drow, for Lolth successfully extinguished the knowledge about that god.
At some point in the years leading up to 1479 DR, Lolth ordered her servants to begin collecting blue fire items and relics important to Mystra in order to use them to craft her own Demon Weave. Her ultimate goal was to become the new goddess of magic, but she ended up failing with the return of Mystra. In truth, Lolths plan was doomed to fail from its conception, because she lacked the competence and understanding to sustain a Weave. In fact, despite her efforts, Lolth wasnt actually creating her own Weave she was merely leeching off the remaining strands of Mystras, which acted as a barrier between Toril and another cataclysm one of such an immensity that it could have wreaked havoc across the whole planet and its Underdark. Lolths incompetence left the Weave on the verge of total collapse, and forced some of the then active Chosen of Mystra to sustain Lolths construct on her behalf, unbeknownst to her, until Mystra recovered and reclaimed the Weave.
385x385px
After the event known as the Second Sundering, Lolth was no longer unrivaled as the goddess of the drow (even if she still retained her position of dominance), for the dead members of the Dark Seldarine were revived. A further disadvantage for the Spider Queen, Eilistraee and Vhaeraun reached a truce and even reciprocal friendship after their return, which allowed them to focus their forces towards their main goal, rather than squandering resources in battling each other (although their followers still skirmished often). Moreover, Zinzerena managed to re-emerge and escape Lolths grasp, depriving Lolth of the portfolio of assassination. Lolth also lost the portfolio of chaos (that she had stolen from Zinzerena about a century earlier) it went to Malyk, drow god of rebellion and wild magic.
The wizard Mordenkainen claimed that, after the Second Sundering, Vhaeraun had dramatically steered away from his previous stance of rebellion against Lolths system, and instead assumed a position of subservience to the Spider Queen, even coming to embody the ideal of drow male according to the Lolthite matriarchy "swift, silent, obedient". According to Mordenkainen, Vhaerauns faith became tolerable in Lolth-controlled cities, and was often practiced by males who wished for a better lot in life, but that werent willing to openly oppose Lolths matriarchy, rather than by drow who strove to demolish the system at its root.