The Divine Beast Mistress of Moonlight
Lurue (), also known as Silverymoon The Queen of Talking Beasts was worshiped not only by unicorns, but various other sentient, non-humanoid creatures, ranging from entire species like pegasi to individuals within species that gained the ability to communicate. The Unicorn Queen was also revered by romantic and swashbuckling adventurers, but she was the center of her own religion long before humanoid notice.
Lurues exact nature was unclear and a matter of debate within Faerûn. Her worship was often connected to that of the noble beast deity Nobanion as the faith of "The Lion and the Unicorn" before being lumped into the catch-all category of "beast cult". In contrast to the often cited example of the great Uthgardt totem spirits however, both these two were divine entities in their own right as opposed to mere conduits for the actions of another deity and had been for as long as they had been worshiped in Faerûn. For some period of time she was also counted amongst the ranks of the archfey, throwing her divine status further into question.
Further confusing the issue was the fact that Lurue appeared to the elves of Evermeet as Yathaghera the Winged Queen, Similarly, some conflated the Unicorn Queen with her rider, the ranger goddess Mielikki due to the Forest Queens use of a unicorn as her symbol. She was also a part of the Weave of magic (and thus Mystra) in a way that only other deities of magic (such as Savras and Azuth) were known to be. 
Lurue manifested as an (at the shoulder)  tall unicorn surrounded by a silvery nimbus. that invoked awe from even the most hardened souls, from her shimmering hooves, mane like silver stardust and flawless spiral horn. She could sprout or retract a translucent pair of silvery wings as she so desired, while her Evermeet aspect of Yathaghera always had a pair of gorgeous, opalescent and silver pegasi wings.
Lurue sometimes appeared on the horizon as a silver, ghostly unicorn, when leading the Silver Herd, a group of a dozen robust unicorn stallions. A few lucky individuals were able to see the often-used silver nimbus around the moon at night. A manifestation of fyreflies indicated she was active and aware of what was going on. She may also manifest through unicorns, pegasi, ki-rin, faerie dragons, pseudodragons, giant lynxes, tressyms, talking owls, white or red roses, daisies, firestars and minor courage, hope, temperance, and wisdom incarnates.
Lurue was a goddess of such benevolence that she arguably embodied the very concept of good, even by divine standards She was a being of unrestrained enthusiasm and delight, an oft whimsical free spirit often given to wanderlust with a preference for new discoveries and the joyous exploration of life, and thus was appropriately knowledgable about some of Faerûns more remote places. She favored light banter and clever riddles, was said to love flowers from the simple to the romantic, and was believed to have a persistent love of sweets, particularly mint and honey wine.
Despite being viewed as a mischievous and flighty figure by the more dour and disciplined, Lurue was fully capable of determination. She was infinitely loyal to anyone she took into her trust, never abandoning a worshiper in need, and when no choice remained but to fight she proved an intractable and ruthless opponent. and those who took risk to save a unicorn might receive a boon from her. Nothing brought her more sorrow than the existence of black unicorns, creations of the Red Wizards of Thay using fiendish blood, and she sought a method of redeeming their corrupted souls.
Lurue was incredibly quick and nimble, able to fly at incredible speeds after sprouting her wings and able to trample and kick her way through melee engagements. She was immune to all enchanting magic, effects that would restrain her movement, poisons, and any magical items without at least a +3 enchantment.
On the other hand, Lurue could cast all spells save for harmful necromantic ones, though she favored spells of enchantment, divination, abjuration, illusion, transmutation, healing and those related to the natural world. She could teleport without error at will and cast holy word, forbiddance and banishment (only on evil outsiders in the latter case) each once per tenday. In the extremely rare cases where she allowed a pure and goodly female upon her back, the rider would instantly and permanently grow in charisma.
Lurues most potent magical abilities however arguably came from her horn, a structure of purest silver tempered harder than the strongest adamantine known as the Argent Alicorn. In addition to being usable as a powerful +5 lance, the Argent Alicorns touch on a mortal, if Lurue willed it, acted as a combination heal, regenerate, neutralize poison, and silver tongue and starry eyes spell, which as a side effect bathed the beneficiary in silver faerie fire for 40 minutes and left a permanent, silver tattoo of Lurues symbol over their brow. The horn also acted as a potion of sweet water of triple-strength upon touching any body of water.
Glades where at least two out of Lurue, Mielikki, Eldath or Shiallia had danced could purge a mortal who slept there of all illness and toxins and regenerate any physical damage. The Staff of Shoon, a magical item created by Shoon IV by killing a dozen unicorns, could be destroyed by a combination of his blood and Lurues tears.
Those who saw Lurues moon manifestation received her blessing in the form of slightly enhanced defenses in both body and mind until the following dawn.
The Chosen of Lurue (alongside those of a few other deities) had by nature of the divine influence they carried a natural defense that protected them from yielding up memories by use of an easily conjured mind blank. 
Lurue was a goddess of the Material Plane and freely wandered Faerûn, often in the region around Silverymoon. She also freely roamed Karasuthra, the 1 layer of the Beastlands in the Great Wheel cosmology, and the House of Nature of the World Tree cosmology despite having no realms there. There was some indication that, at least for a time, she was preparing a realm beyond the Material Plane in order to move relatively closer to Nobanion.
Lurue was said to dance above the motes of the Moonbridge in Silverymoon (but only if there was no more than one observer) and occasionally appeared in a sacred grove known as the Place of the Unicorn northeast of Leilon.
Lurue led the Silver Herd on spirited runs as well as thunderous stampedes in defense of her devout worshipers. Normally a ghostly charge was enough to scare antagonists off, but the herd would fight until the enemy was driven away. Were the entire herd to be dispatched, each member immediately evaporating into morning dew, Lurue did not surrender or leave the worshiper, instead calling upon the other nature deities for aid before soldifying and fighting with no quarter.
Lurue, like her colleagues Gwaeron Windstrom and Shiallia, both of whom she worked closely with, was allied to and a servant of Mielikki, and thus by extension a servant of Silvanus, She was more than a mere mount upon which Mielikki rode when needed (such as into battle), but a close and perhaps lifelong friend.
It was said that Silverymoons mother was Selûne, the Faerûnian goddess of the moon itself, but her father was often debated. Some believed she was related to Kamerynn the Unicorn, one of Chaunteas children of the Moonshaes. Those from other crystal spheres meanwhile attempted to link her to Eachthighern, a male power of unicorns and pegasi not usually worshiped on Toril if at all, citing him as the father of Lurue and her younger sister Yathaghera. Lurue herself claimed no relation Eachthighern, reacting only with confusion to his name, although notably some scholars believed Kamerynn to simply be an avatar of Eachthighern. Lurue was believed to have at least one direct descendent in the form of the particularly noble stallion that led the Silver Herd.
Lurue counted on the help of other nature deities in times of crisis. who she considered a friend, She had a similarly positive relationship with the elven moon goddess Sehanine and the like-minded Aerdrie. Lurue was also an ally and close friend of Nobanion, their deep bond having lasted for centuries, such to the point that she was the one the Lion King counted on most when he needed an outside perspective or comfort in times of stress and sadness.
Lurues only personal foe was the Beastlord Malar, whom she detested and opposed at every opportunity. She blamed him for secretly contributing to the creation of the abominable black unicorns which brought her such sadness, while Malar considered her a prized quarry and would be more than happy to rip her apart.
The holy symbol of Lurue.
Lurue was beloved by good races wherever she was known and took worshipers from all non-evil alignments, though in general her faithful were chaotic or good to some degree. Hunters seeking to feed their families might pray to Lurue as appeasement, and she actively sought out and guided the souls of those who died alone in the wilds, adopting those with no other divinity to take them.
Lurue also had a number of demihuman worshipers. and the Mistress of Moonlight was among the more popular deities among Eilistraees faithful, right behind the goddess herself and Selûne. However, Lurues primary worshipers were not even among humanoids, let alone human. Notably, Lurue granted her most devoted priestesses the power to add more potential worshipers to her herd.
Lurues dogma centered around the figure of the Unicorn as a symbol of joy, hope, salvation and protection for those with nothing and noone. A happy life filled with laughter was considered an ideal one, and it was the pursuit of all these things, embodied in the unicorn, that brought happiness according to their creed. Furthermore, unbridled gaiety and sharp wit were considered the quickest ways to best evil. Everyone was to be commended for what they could do and comforted for what they could not. Gifts were to be given on a spontaneous whim, quests taken on dares, and the impossible pursued for the sheer wonder that ones dream could come true.
Priests and druids of Lurue prayed for their spells at midnight, if possible in a moonlit glade or sylvan glen. 
Lurues twin holy days are Midsummers Eve and the Feast of the Moon. The former was a night-long festival celebration of revelry, antics, and hullabaloo marked by wild rides through the countryside and sky, theatrical skits, humorous oratories, grand group songs, mock duels and romantic declarations. Many unicorns took a mate for life on this night. The latter by contrast was a quiet ceremony marking the onset of winter and served as a time for remembering those who have passed away and now "dance with the unicorns." Many great works of art and epic song are unveiled at this time to quiet applause, particularly in Silverymoon, which celebrated its founding that day.
Lurues origins were tied closely with that of her boon companion Mielikki. In the early days of creation, before she had even come to Toril, Mielikki oversaw the forest, and when that work was done she came to the conclusion that she needed a guardian and representative to watch over the Material Plane. Selûne, apparently, agreed with this assessment, and offered her daughter, Lurue, for the role.
According to legend, Mielikki, first encountered Lurue ages after that time, while at the shallows of the River Rauvin, quenching her thirst. Not but a newly foaled filly, Lurue appeared on a shaft of monlight and was befriended by Mielikki, who taught her how to run through the forests of the North, chasing the moon. The young Lurue pridefully adopted the mantle of "Mistress of Moonlight" and dilligently worked for the coexistence of all within the forests expanse, whether human, elf, or talking beast. Lurue was occasionally seen in the vicinity of the river ever since, as a glowing unicorn considered a sign of good luck.
250px|A corrupted avatar of Lurue.
In 374 DR, before the region that would later become Silverymoon was settled, a hallowed site associated with Lurue known as the Pool of Eternal Spring was being corrupted by the forces of Malar. The Beast Lord sought dominance over the forest, particularly the area around the pool, and his agents had been brutally slaughering animals as tribute and casting the bodies into its waters. The climax of this desecration was to summon a corrupted avatar of Lurue to serve Malars ends in his new domain, an act he believed would demonstrate his dominion like no other.
Tainted by Malars influence, the summoned avatar was wicked and sought to carry out his will by killing anything that dared to come upon it. Necrotic energy danced at the tip of its black horn as it rampaged against those who came to stop it and even those that created it. This all ended when a jagged stroke of white lightning from the moon itself struck the unicorn, an act of divine intervention speculated to be a courtesy of Selune, who was waiting until the peak of Malars plan to foil it and so show him the utter futility of trying to claim the forest. Lurues avatar thus purified, she gave a thankful nod to those who fought to help her before setting to work.
Her horn now cleansed of corruption, the avatar dipped it into the pool, which was restored to its original, pure and silvery state. The cleansing continued down an outlet stream to remove any trace of corruption that may have escaped into the current. Her work finished, Lurue galloped through the night, freed from Malars threat, and as a way to show her gratitude and ensure Malar would never try this again she allowed the silvery spring flow to continue. The pool became the Pool of Eternal Silver, and its waters would be forever protected by her grace. Silverymoon would later be named as such in honor of this tale.
Lurues faith was personal and direct, and it was only when she began attracting human followers that her nature and religion were recorded, or even broadly noticed.
It was in the year 627 DR that Ecamane Truesilver and his nine apprentices arrived in Silverymoon, claiming five goddesses, one of which was Lurue, drew them there.  Later he would pen the Lore of Lurue at the goddesss behest, an enchanted storybook telling of the origins of Silverymoon that eventually made its way to Candlekeep after his death in 712 DR.
Lurues location during the Time of Troubles was unclear, although it might be able to be deduced. In 1368 DR, a divine entity with an unclear connection to Lurue was sent to the Great Dale to combat the influence of the Rotting Man.
It was said that were Lurue ever to lose her Argent Alicorn then all Faerûn would perish, spring lost forever to an eternal winter.
It was rumored that Alustriel Silverhand planned to raise a mythal over Silverymoon, which was conceptually called "Myth Lurue".