Mielikki (
Mielikki was cheerful with a ready smile and had confidence in herself and her path. However, while she fully showed that confidence when in small groups, she was averse to formal speaking and being in charge of larger groups. She did not consider people her friends lightly, but she demonstrated fierce loyalty and protectiveness to those she did. Her views tended to be those of the archetypal ranger. Yet, in the late 15 century DR, mortals saw her as distant and spiritual, and not as human as some other gods. While not uncaring of mortals, her attention and blessings could be harder to attract.
While she knew that death was a part of life and some must die so that others may live, she could not just accept injuries and deaths of both animals and friends. She regularly healed such stricken beings as she found them, rather than leave them to be part of the circle of life as Silvanus would.
Mielikkis preferred avatar was the Supreme Ranger, where she appeared as a tall woman of robust and shapely build and lithe grace. She moved with the spring of a leaping buck and the ease of a prowling panther. Her russet-colored hair was long and unbound so it hung around her shoulders and down her back, while her eyes were large and brown, and deep like pools. Her clothes were dull green and brown in color and she wore the leather armor commonly used by rangers.
thumb|left|250px|Mielikki as the Forest Queen, with wolf and songbirds.
Her other avatar was the Forest Queen, seeming to be a young maiden who had golden-hued moss and leaves for hair. She wore sheer yellow and green gossamer robes, even in chill winter weather, and had summer songbirds fluttering around her person.
No matter her chosen form, Mielikki was  tall, spoke in a rich low purr, and always walked on the air so her feet never made contact with ground, and thus didnt leave any tracks and didnt make any sound. Occasionally, she had a stags antlers emerging from her forehead, either already present when she appeared or growing slowly as mortals watched, though she displayed these less often after Beshaba adopted black antlers as her symbol, and had almost abandoned it by 1372 DR.
When not appearing as one of her avatars, Mielikki manifested most often in the form of a white unicorn that glowed and galloped in the air. This could teleport anywhere in Faerûn as she willed, communicate mentally with all living creatures, and cast spells with a touch of its alicorn. On other occasions, she appeared as a floating, glowing light of a blue-white or a green, gold, and rust hue. Through it, she could speak, envelop and carry items, and use her magic. More subtly, she could be felt when gazing in wonderment at a unicorn and in the hearts of those who walked in peace in the woods.
The faithful, however, believed her most common manifestation was her whispering voice, echoing forever through all the forests of the world via the rustling of leaves.
To do her work, Mielikki might send dryads, satyrs, sprites, swanmays, treants, or unicorns, and forest animals like hawks, wolves, and songbirds. Elk were sacred to her in her Finnish incarnation, while the white hart of the High Forest and the mysterious Mielikkar were sacred to her in Faerûn.
Mielikki was a supremely talented tracker, better than Malar and surpassed perhaps only by Gwaeron Windstrom. As a master ranger and druid, she was skilled in all aspects of survival, hunting, wilderness lore, and more, and she was particularly skilled in bowmaking. Her greatest favored enemies were undead, shapechangers, and dragons, followed by giants and animals. She was instantly alerted to any action that was despoiling a forest or threatened to do so.
Mielikki could cast spells from any school of magic bar those of necromancy and illusion and from any sphere bar the reversed, harmful forms of spells in the healing sphere and necromantic sphere. Moreover, she cast all spells from the animal sphere and plant sphere that involved of course animals and plants at twice their normal power in all aspects and they were harder to resist. She cast spells as a druid and commanded all the spells and powers of the Animal, Good, Plant, and Travel domains.
In particular, simply by touching any tree, Mielikki could create treants at will and she could summon twelve forest creatures of one type to her side every two minutes, and they obeyed their goddess unto death. She could summon great packs of wolves or flocks of hawks or up to a dozen or so unicorns command plant creatures up to  away and speak to animals and cause them to grow in size or become intelligent, or else fall asleep. No woodland creature could harm her, even those controlled by others.
Mielikkis very presence cancelled all mind-altering effects, such as charms and psionics, on all good and non-evil creatures up to  from her person. In addition, she had the psionic defense intellect fortress.
In combat, Mielikki was skilled in fighting with twin scimitars—her hornblades—and in archery. However, she did not engage in melee often, and favored her fists when she did. She would rather rely on her own skills and magic. She also sometimes used a bow, but its arrows struck not to inflict injury but to bring life—where they landed, forest plants appeared and grew in a matter of moments, even entangling whoever she wished. 
When in battle, Mielikki sometimes fought with her two scimitar-sized hornblades, known as the Hornblades, which she sometimes lent to mortal rangers who embarked on great quests on her behalf. She also had her longbow, named Hartsong.
Mielikki had long dwelled upon the Prime Material plane itself, and though the precise location was unknown to others, she made her home in a hidden grove near the headwaters of the Unicorn Run. She only established a divine realm in the Outer Planes in the . Its likely she helped Eldath move out there too.
After that, she resided in the Grove of the Unicorns, which in the Great Wheel cosmology was found in Krigala, topmost layer of the Beastlands, and in the World Tree cosmology was located within the House of Nature.
Following the Spellplague, by the late 15 century DR, Mielikki resided with Silvanus in his domain
Mielikki most enjoyed exploring all the forests of Faerûn. and especially the High Forest, according to the druids there. Though their reasons were unknown to mortals, she and Eldath protected the High Forest and prevented it from being logged by humans, elves, and others, and her followers claimed she would personally bring destruction down on those who would despoil it, regardless of their reasons.
In particular, Mielikki was said to wander the Unicorns Run, a river within the High Forest, and to live nearby, and was often sighted in the area. Harpers held this to be obviously true and even made hazardous pilgrimages up the river. South of it, the Delimbiyr Crescent, too, was believed by the Harpers to be her favored hunting ground. She watched over and protected the whole Delimbiyr Vale, desiring to make the land a sanctuary for her faith and a showpiece of her ideals of harmony between nature and civilization.
Mielikki also watched over rangers, druids, dryads and other forest beings, as well as good people and lost children in any woodland, regardless of how evil the threats against them. In forest places that inspired wonder, Mielikki was said to prevail over all. She was the most responsive of deities, according to Elminster, always answering those who prayed to her and not only when convenient. She gave aid to the faithful within a year of their asking, and if she did not, she told them why they had not measured up, and only completing a great quest could change her mind. Sometimes, so that she might test the conduct of her rangers, Mielikki posed as a mortal woman lost and alone in the woods. But those who were observant would see she made no trail, and that her feet didnt even touch the ground.
On Greengrass, Midsummer Night, and Shieldmeet, Mielikki brought herds of unicorns together to ride through the forests all night long and teleport as many times as they liked and up to three times their normal range. At such times her faithful were allowed to ride them bareback, so they ended up travelling far and seeing the world.
thumb|right|350px|A gathering of the gods of nature Mielikki and her unicorn, Chauntea, Eldath, and Silvanus.
Mielikki was a servant of Silvanus, the Oak-Father, together with Chauntea, the Grain Goddess, and Eldath, the Goddess of Singing Water.
Mielikkis calmness tended to ease Silvanuss rage at those who harmed nature.3-editions Faiths and Pantheons explicitly calls Silvanus her father and Eldath her sister, but the earlier 2-edition sourcebook Faiths & Avatars makes it clear that these were mortal misunderstandings. Despite these bonds, Mielikki followed her own path. 
While she served Silvanus, she in turn was served by Gwaeron Windstrom, Lurue, and Shiallia. When mortals prayed to her through him, he tracked her down to whichever forest she was concealed in and delivered the message. On some of her expeditions, Gwaeron accompanied Mielikki to lend her aid in tracking and in training her own rangers. When pressed into battle, which was rare, Mielikki rode upon the back of Lurue the Unicorn, who was a friend and ally. Because of this close association and Mielikkis own unicorn symbol, some mortals confused the two. Lastly, Shiallia lent her services in planting seeds and nurturing seedling in the High Forest and in midwifing for pregnant forest animals. After the Spellplague, Shiallia was counted as Mielikkis exarch.
Mielikki was also allies with Shaundakul, Lathander, and Nobanion, and was of course an enemy of Malar, Moander, Myrkul, Talona, and Talos. Further afield, Mielikki was on good terms with the Oerth deity [https//greyhawkonline.com/greyhawkwiki/Ehlonna Ehlonna]. The two woodland goddesses got together often to catch up, relax, and drink oakroot tea. Though Ehlonna had no presence on Toril, Mielikki answered prayers on her behalf for any of Ehlonnas followers who happened to arrive there.Although Mielikki and Ehlonna are unrelated, they are often linked for conversion of D&D materials. The 3-edition Forgotten Realms Campaign Setting p. 9 suggests substituting Mielikki for Ehlonna when converting core D&D characters to the Realms. Similarly, the core magic item quiver of Ehlonna is renamed quiver of Mielikki. Other mentions of Ehlonna have been in error, with Mielikki mistakenly called Ehlonna once in her statblock in Faiths & Pantheons p. 49 (possibly indicating it was copied from Ehlonnas in Deities and Demigods) and Magic of Faerûn p. 66 mentions an example cleric of Ehlonna, which errata corrected to Mielikki. In  any case, Ed Greenwood resolved these discrepancies by making Mielikki and Ehlonna acquaintances, while confirming Ehlonna is not present on Toril. The two goddesses even shared a divine realm, the Grove of the Unicorns.
Moreover, Mielikki had two mortal champions. She charged Jeryth with defending the High Forest on her behalf. She communicated with the Green Regents through dreams. On the planes, her proxies were Tiera and Lemminkainen.
Mielikkis worshipers were concentrated in the northern parts of Faerûn, namely in the Delimbiyr Crescent and Loudwater, High Forest, the North, the Silver Marches, and in the city of Silverymoon in the Dalelands, particularly Archendale, Daggerdale, Harrowdale, and Shadowdale and in Cormanthor, as in Elventree. In the east, they could be found in Rashemen, Aglarond, and the Great Dale, and in the south as far as the Chondalwood. She was among the major non-elven deities venerated in Myth Drannor in Cormanthyr before its fall.
In these places, she was venerated by woodsmen among the humans, elves (especially wood elves), and half-elves, as well as by dryads, hamadryads, and treants, and by forest creatures with no common gods of their own. Common folk appealed to her when children were lost in the forest, so she might protect and guide them. Woodcutters left simple shrines to her in thanks for their safety and for the wood theyd taken, and such shrines marked the limits of future hunting and logging. Otherwise, the Lady of the Forest was little talked about, except in peaceful woodland settings.
The majority of rangers revered Mielikki, as their leader, their watchful mother, and the supreme ranger. by druids, and by clerics and thieves of good or chaotic bent. Many Harpers also followed Mielikki, as did most members of the Emerald Enclave.
Under her Khalreshaar aspect on Evermeet, she was mainly worshiped by a growing cult of half-elves. They believed her to be the daughter of Silvanus and Hanali Celanil, and as such, the first truly half-elven deity..
thumb|right|A holy symbol of Mielikki.
Her traditional holy symbol was a white unicorns head, golden horned and blue eyed, facing sinister, that is, to the left. An alternative symbol showed a white unicorn over a green field. An older symbol was a white star on a green leaf, specifically a tiny and dazzlingly bright white star balanced on a green leaf of oak or ash that was open and verdant. Within the Finnish pantheon, her symbol was an evergreen tree. Her colors were forest green and red.
Mielikki hailed from the Finnish pantheon. Though her fellow gods were tiring of life, Mielikki was still too young and vibrant to give in to their apathy, and so chose to establish a new following on Toril among its many nature-worshipers to stay strong. Its likely that Loviatar pursued her there to do the same, because of her old hatred for her.
Followers of the Sacred Hexad believed their six nature deities made the forests of the world, particularly the great forest Cormanthor. They held that Mielikki and Rillifane had planted trees of all species and sizes.
An early legend held that while Mielikki drank from the shallows of River Rauvin, the newly foaled goddess Lurue appeared before her in a shaft of moonlight. They became friends and Mielikki taught Lurue to chase the moon through the forests of the North. This site was later held to be sacred to both goddesses. Centuries later, the pair returned, in the guise of a ranger and her steed, and there found Moonsilver Inn and Silverymoon Town (established 574 DR). They loved the place for the peoples desire to build in harmony with the land, rather than cut the forests and despoil it. They blessed the inn, making it a sanctuary for the good, and the city of Silverymoon grew up around it. In the late 1400s DR, however, it was told that, after Mielikki was finished creating the forests, she sought a guardian and representative on the Material Plane to keep watch there. Agreeing, Selûne created Lurue and sent her to work for Mielikki.
An ancient and unsupported legend told that the human Khala of Imaskar had devoted themselves to the god Bane the Black Lord and perpetrated numerous atrocities. For their deeds, the gods of law inflicted curses upon them. Among them, Mielikki accused them of acting like beasts but committing human evils, and thus cursed them to cast human shadows to remind them on their crimes and lost souls. Out of all the gods curses was born the peryton, a vicious, stag-headed, eagle-bodied beast.
In the , the mage Ecamane Truesilver and his nine apprentices arrived in Silverymoon to found a magic school, saying that five goddesses—Mielikki, Eldath, Lurue, Mystra, and Sehanine Moonbow—had called them there.
Among more than a dozen other deities, Mielikki manifested at the Dancing Place in High Dale in inspire the formation of the Harpers in the . Mielikki continued to support the Harpers, by imbuing her power in their forest campsites, refuges, and meeting spots blessing Master Harpers with tracking skills and Harper priests with a swift step.
The great hamadryad sorceress known as the Hamagess sacrificed herself to protect the High Forest from infestation by Abyssal vegetation during the rise of Hellgate Keep in the . Centuries afterward, "the Hamagess" would be adopted by the Mielikkians as an obscure name for the goddess herself.
When the mighty mortal ranger Gwaeron Windstrom hunted and killed a number of manifestations and even an avatar of Malar the Beastlord, one after the other, Mielikki made him a demigod in her service and his church would grow out of hers.
One dark night some time in the 10 century DR, Mielikki sent a glowing spellbook to light the way of the legendary ranger Yornar the Tracker while he was lost in the forest and harried by bugbears. After he prayed for guidance on what to do with it, Mielikki visited him in his sleep, saying "Keep it with you and give it to one who will serve me. You will know when the time is right to bestow it." He even felt a kiss on his cheek, with a touch of fire yet as cool as spring water. The book came to be called Yornars Trail Companion. Passed from ranger to priest and priest to ranger down through the centuries in a winding path around the Realms, it was thought Mielikki sent the book out to inspire and encourage her faithful and to strengthen the magic of her priests.
In the 11 century DR, a priestess of Mielikki that lived in Amphail, Asaudrae Daerantree, was killed by hunters while in the form of a stag, giving rise to the Rite of the Stag Lass. Many of the faith and some in Amphail would come to believe Asaudrae to be Mielikki herself.
In the , the ranger Rhighaermon OAntlers sustained mortal injuries in an effort to recover Yornars Trail Companion and bring it to the Mielikkian temple in Maerlar in Mulhorand. Then Mielikki, in the form of a lady clad in green, emerged from the trees and caused vines to ensnare, choke, and tear apart the pursuing doppelgangers with no more than her finger. She picked up the faithful Rhighaermon with a smile and disappeared, as the stunned priests fell to their knees and wept and praised her. A message carved on their altar would be found the next morning, as if it had always been there, encouraging the Mielikkians to continue passing the book on.
After the line of the Green Regents had been broken by the Rensha lords of the Delimbiyr Vale for more than a century and a half, Mielikki intervened in the . She took the form of a unicorn being hunted by a band of mercenary hunters hired by Pasuuk Rensha to seize its horn. After weeks, they tracked and finally tricked it into teleporting into a trap theyd set at a treacherous bend in the Unicorn Run. Or so they thought. The newest member, Nanathlor Greysword, was ordered to inflict the killing strike—but hesitated, his heart breaking as he gazed into her eyes. Nanathlor vowed he would not kill such a magnificent beast and that he would defend it against all that would despoil it. Twelve hunters joined him, and together they mutinied against their captain. Afterward, Mielikki revealed herself as an avatar and made Nanathlor her new Green Regent and those who stood with him the Scions. Furthermore, she asked Nanathlor and his comrades to liberate the Delimbiyr Vale from the rule of the Renshas, which they did in the ensuing War of the Returned Regent.
In the 1350s DR, Mielikki favored Florin Falconhand, setting him quests, appearing to him no less than seven times, and even having her avatar begin a romantic relationship with him.
When the gods were cast down to the mortal world by Ao on Kythorn 15 in the , Mielikki was among the few Gentle Sisters who prayed to the overgod for guidance on how they should comport themselves. Yet they fell like the others, with Mielikki landing in, and destroying, her own grove by the headwaters of the Unicorns Run. As she lay alone, stunned, and wracked with burning pain, Ao commanded Mielikki to "Know true mercy, kindness, and humility. Find the Tablets of Fate that divine hands stole away from Helms guardianship. Hope, and pray, and show lesser beings help and compassion." Not knowing how to find the tablets nor anything beyond her forests, Mielikki sought out the great mortal sage and Harper friend Elminster of Shadowdale. On the way, she heard Moongentle Lharinn, a Harper ranger whod kept vigil and prayed to Mielikki all through the night for guidance, and came to her in the cold misty dawn, appearing quite human. Mielikki told Moongentle all that had happened and told her to spread the word to all "good and gentle creatures" before going on her way.
During the ensuing Time of Troubles, Mielikki adapted well to avatar form and did not abandon her responsibilities, and since she already resided on the Prime Material plane, she suffered little. However, so many stray gods wandering the world gave her faithful no end of grief.
In the chaos of the aftermath, Mielikki claimed the portfolio of autumn from the deceased god Myrkul. Despite this, Mielikki came to recognize that, with her service to Silvanus, as his power was growing, her own was dwindling, as were her faithful, which was threatening to reduce her to a demigoddess or less.
When Lander was slain by the assassin Bhadla in the , he had a vision of the goddess Mielikki, who told the young ranger he had successfully completed his task to aid the Bedine.
In the , Mielikki appeared in a dream to Jeryth Phaulkon, a noble of Waterdeep, and offered to make her her chosen. Her reasons were more practical than mystical initially, she wanted her new champion to stop the Hoar Fang gnolls from laying waste to the Lurkwood, and Jeryth happened to be their captive at the time. Imbued with the goddesss powers, Jeryth freed herself and her companions, met the Harper Bran Skorlsun, and defeated the gnolls. Similarly, Mielikki appeared in a dream to Briosar Helmsing, one of her priests, and gave him a quest to meet up with Jeryth.
Finally, in the , Mielikki ordered a complete restructuring of her clergy, including the reintroduction of druids. The action not only arrested the decline of her power, but bolstered it and gave her enough to establish her first divine realm in the Outer Planes.
In the early 1370s DR, Mielikki guided the young Azalar Falconhand to become a ranger who would slay the Susurrus and lead the good fey back into the Living Wood of Shadowdale. With the aid of adventurers, he achieved this in the . He was also proclaimed Lord of Shadowdale and brought fey back to the area.
In the events of the Spellplague in the , when a unicorn—possibly an avatar of Mielikki, or at least one of her servants—took Catti-brie and Regis away to a private paradise called Iruladoon she had prepared for them that would remain untouched by the turmoil to follow. This was presumably done as a favor to Drizzt DoUrden.