Prince of the Undead Prince of Undeath Blood Lord Lord of Specters Master of Vampires The Goat-Horned Demon Sovereign of Thanatos
Orcus, also known as Tenebrous that served as master of the undead from the depths of the Abyss. Returned from undeath but not technically alive, the Demon Lord of Undeath was the multiverses staunchest advocate for stagnation, seeking to exterminate all life, to darken and desolate all worlds, until all that remained in his static reality were undead moved only by his will. The Shadow That Was was among the powers of the Abyss most often worshiped as deity by the mortals of the Prime Material plane and, even more than the Prince of Demons himself, was close to obtaining true divinity.
350px|The Prince of Undeath in all his majesty.
Orcus was the very picture of demonic, an imposing figure of vaguely humanoid form standing some  to  tall. His physique was marked by bestial features the horned, desiccated head of a ram, thick-furred legs and cloven hooves of a goat,  massive, black wings of a bat, a great maw filled with tusks, and a long, thick, constantly moving tail, poison-tipped and covered in spines.
Foul and hideous, Orcus seemed to walk the line between life and undeath. His wings stirred clouds of reeking, diseased air and his body was riddled with sores, suggesting he was alive, albeit sickly, while his skull-like head, nearly bereft of flesh, and the glowing red eyes within hinted he was undead.
Orcus was wholly misanthropic and self-absorbed with his hatred of all things, Interestingly enough, Orcus did appear to find some modicum of joy and appreciation in the misery he caused.
Several aspects of Orcus personality were paradoxical. In spite of his close association with undeath, it was said by some that he held no true affinity for the undead. He was believed to merely tolerate his hordes of once-living minions, considering them tools to strike out at his rivals, Only when all was dead would existence finally know true peace.
While undead typically did not require food for sustenance, for much of his existence, Orcus had a gluttonous hunger that could never be satiated. His servants gathered food from across the planes of existence in the ongoing futile attempt to sate his cravings. Throughout his existence he has tasted among the finest delicacies originating from myriad worlds across the multiverse. Only when the Blood Lord drank the blood of the living did he feel satisfaction.
The Prince of the Undead held dominion over the portfolio of undeath, and held influence over the domains of chaos, death, evil, darkness,
Orcus did grant limited powers to the meager mortals that slew others in his name, transforming them into mindless zombies or ghouls. Orcus would also bless some demons with transformation into undeath, the most revered example of which involved the creation of a devourer.
Orcus could not be harmed by non-magical weapons, highly resistant to the elements,
The Prince of Demons was versed in Dark Speech, the language of ancient evil deities.
He was believed to be capable of destroying the phylactery of any lich at will, and would readily do so if they displeased him. Similarly, if the physical form and phylactery of any lich was destroyed, Orcus could return them to existence as a vestige.
While Orcus most often directed his servants to carry out his will, he was capable of fighting with a berserker-like frenzy as he sought to utterly annihilate his foes.
Anyone that dared to enter within Orcus lair would be subject to mental onslaught that could leave them with a form of madness. These poor souls could be struck with intense feelings of self-loathing and hopelessness, compelled to inflict to cruelty upon others, or left with the spread undeath throughout existence. By merely speaking a single, resounding word Orcus could instantly slay mortals that stood within his lair. He could similarly raise scores of undead within moments and conjure massive skeletal arms to instantly neutralize any threats.
On the occasions when Orcus decided to personally engage in battle, he occasionally wielded a distinctly evil mace of disruption.
300px|The Wand of Orcus within the demon lords grasp.
The relic most-often associated with the Prince of the Undead was the artifact known as the Wand of Orcus, a skull-topped wand with the power to slay any living being.
While the Wand of Orcus had been destroyed on several occasions,
Orcus also held a powerful artifact known as the Orcusword, the blade he wielded during his existence as a balor. It was later held in Tchian-Sumere, Orcuss fortress on the Negative Energy Plane.
Orcus himself crafted the infamous evil artifact known as the Crown of Narfell, which was used to corrupt the souls of many regents in the Cold Lands. It was eventually destroyed, and reforged into the Shadow Crown of Ndu.
Orcus realm was Thanatos, in the bone-meal desert of Oblivions End.
The Prince of the Undead previously court within the fortress city of Naratyr, which sat within the Frozen Sea, fed by the River Styx.
300px|Orcus torturing the wizard Maganus deep in the Abyss.
Much of Orcus existence was spent in an ongoing war with rival demon lords, Grazzt and Demogorgon, the Prince of Demons. The mutual hatred shared between Orcus and Demogorgon was legendary and the two battled against one another for millennia.
He shifted his focus over time however, later seeking out the means to slay a god of death and supplant them in divinity.
Throughout the millennia, Orcus was believed responsible for creating the rituals and curses used to create the first of several types of undead, including ghouls, death knights, and dream vestiges.
Orcus was one third of the triad of demon lords―including Grazzt and Demogorgon―that engaged in ongoing war with one another.While Champions of Ruin state Eltab was among the three demon lords in constant battle with one another, nearly every other source includes Demogorgon among the trio. He viewed Grazzt as a self-aggrandized narcissist, Their conflict predated the Days of Thunder if not the formation of Toril itself.
The Prince of the Undead developed strong enmity with the Raven Queen, the goddess of death that dwelled within the Shadowfell. At one point, Orcus and his minions carried out a series of schemes in an ongoing effort to strip her of her divine powers.
For a brief time, he forged a tenuous alliance with Yeenoghu the Lord of Savagery, and Iggwilv, the mortal daughter of Baba Yaga. Orcus and Iggwilv became involved in an elaborate scheme to overthrow Demogorgon as Prince of Demons.
Orcus was a patron of sorts to the Oerthian mage Vecna, and was said to have offered him the ritual by which he which he became the first lich. He was even pleased with the work of Vecnas one-time follower Acererak, who traveled the planes in search of new and horrific ways to slay innocents. Acererak even turned to the worship of Orcus for a time.
Orcus sired a number of half-fiend children with women of the Darakh Dynasty of Narfell, in the centuries leading up to Dale Reckoning. Among his near-mortal sons were Jesthren Darakh, born to Larnaeril Darakh, as well as Heldakar Darakh, Yannos "the Slayer" Darakh, Garthelaun "the Goreclaw" Darakh, and Ilithkar Darakh. Nearly all of their mothers said to have been sacrificed to Orcus following their births.
Worship of Orcus was spread across numerous isolated cults that operated independently of one another. They operated within the shadows of society, often congregating in locales linked to the dead, including graveyards and secluded tombs.
His worship often attracted malevolent humans, orcs, ogres, giants, and goblinoids, His cults also attracted twisted creatures with a morbid fascination undeath. Notable among these followers were necromancers and others deliberately seeking the path to unlife via lichdom or vampirism. Among the undead that dwelled within Orcus palace or otherwise joined his armies were were zombies, wights, shadows, huecuvae, nightwalkers, sheet phantoms, and death knights.
Leaders within the various cults of Orcus were known as Skull Lords. To attain this title, Orcus followers were tasked with taking control of a horde of undead from the Plains of Hunger and setting them loose upon in an invasion upon the prime material plane. Those that failed were slain and raised as liches, doomed to dwell within Thanatos for eternity.
Orcus had cults dedicated to his worship all across Faerûn, including the realms of Vaasa and Damara. In the Bloodstone Lands, Orcus worship was coordinated by the Cult of the Goats Head, and in the Neverwinter Wood, by the Hunt Lords. Despite its transformation into a realm of undeath, Orcus viewed Thay under the Szass Tam as a mere petty fiefdom.
Temples of Orcus could be found throughout the many planes of existence,
His influence was not limited to the Abyss and the Prime Material Plane. Many of Orcus dark servants spread out across the Shadowfell, determined to commit horrific deeds in his name. In the Shadowfell, Orcus cultists took over the dark settlements of Moil, and Evernight, the dark echo of Neverwinter in Faerûn. Several Shadowfell cults even banded together for a time to raise up Orcus as a new God of Death, to take the place of the Raven Queen, going so far as to scour the Plane of Dreams for clues to their quest.
Orcus holy symbol was described as the horned head of a goat, sometimes set over a skull-topped mace. This symbol was not universally used throughout his cult however. Some cells adopted similar, but distinctly different iconography.
350px|A deathpriest of Orcus (left) along with the ghoul Doresain.
* Banak, high priest of Orcus in the Bloodstone Lands
* Doresain, Orcus exarch an elf that feasted upon of flesh of others to become the first ghoul in existence.
* Ghur-Tha the Cleaver, leader of the Ragnor tribe of the Firward Mountains.
* Kelzull, the Hierophant of Annihilation.
* Kyuss, an elder evil that was believed to have once been a priest of Orcus.
* Malagors the Corpse King, a priest that committed horrific deeds and was rewarded by Orcus with transformation into a demon.
* Soneillon, the succubus Queen of Whispers that claimed Orcus as her patron.
* Zargash, a priest of Orcus and member of the League of Malevolence.
* Zhengyi, the Witch-King of Vaasa.
Like many of the most powerful demon lords who struggled for power in the Abyss, Orcus started his existence as a mortal on the Prime Plane. He was apparently a wicked spellcaster of some sort, most probably a priest to some dark deity. After his death, his soul journeyed to Pazunia 
There existed for Orcus a different origin, stating he was one of the primordials present during the Dawn War and was older than the Abyss itself. Along with fellow primordials Baphomet and Demogorgon, Orcus was said to have brought down the then-current Prince of Demons, Obox-ob. Obox-Ob had attained the shard of pure evil ventured out to the Astral Plane, to gain ultimate power over the entire multiverse. While in the midst of attaining their demonic forms, the trio cast the Prince of Demons down into the point form which the Abyss first formed. They then rode along the Blood Rift and ascended to the ranks of full-fledged demon lords.
However it began, Orcus became the Prince of the Undead and took dominion over Thanatos, the Belly of Death. Ever hungry for more power, Orcus sought to dethrone Demogorgon as the Prince of Demons, a title also coveted by Grazzt.
250px|Orcus stomping about.
In , a servant of Orcus named Thargaun Crell became the first Nentyarch of Tharos, the realm that later came to be known as Narfell. Prince of the Undead bestowed upon Crell the Crown of Narfell, a powerful artifact that would corrupt the royal line and their descendants for centuries.
At some point in their history Orcus managed to capture his long-time foe Baphomet, and imprisoned him within the dungeons of his lair in Thanatos.
Orcus became the patron of the Red Wizard Zhengyi in the 10 DR, aiding him in his quest to become a lich. Priests of Orcus supported Zhengyi in the , when the lich created the Castle Perilous and gained control over many undead creatures. Zhengyi attacked Damara the following year and finally brought it under his control after nearly a decade of conflict. 
In the , the duergar of Deepearth attempted to summon an avatar of Orcus to the Realms. They were thwarted by the future king of Damara Gareth Dragonsbane and his company of adventurers. stole the wand away to the Astral Plane, With Orcus wand destroyed, the Witch-King was defeated. Castle Perilous and his undead army disintegrated.
By this time in his existence, Orcus achieved some form of actual divinity. She then took over rulership of Orcus realm of Thanatos in the Abyss and reshaped it in her own image. Despite its apparent recent destruction, Kiaransalee decreed that the Wand of Orcus be hidden away in Pandemonium and Orcus name be erased from all recorded existence.
300px|The Prince of Undeath during his existence as Tenebrous.
Despite the drow demi-goddess efforts, Orcus was restored as a burst of negative energy named Tenebrous and struck out to reclaim power in opportune moments. Upon his return, Tenebrous discovered the Last Word, one of the words of power. This utterance so powerful that it could destroy deities, including the being that uttered it, unless they were themselves a true deity. Tenebrous sought out the lost Wand of Orcus to attain this divinity and restore himself to power.
In his quest for the Wand of Orcus, Tenebrous manipulated one of the Great Modron Marches to gain access to the planes of the Great Wheel. He outright killed several gods, including Primus, god of the modrons, and Maanzecorian. Unfulfilled with his divine power, Tenebrous sought to reincarnate himself as Orcus the divine. The Wand of Orcus however manifested into existence once more.
However, Orcus was resurrected by Quah-Nomag, one of his foremost high priests and thralls, in a blasphemous ritual carried out in the Astral Plane. Orcus then reclaimed his name, his kingdom of Thanatos, and proclaimed himself Prince of the Undead once again. After his second death and resurrection, Orcus retained his status as a demon lord and was no longer content with remaining in the palace within his Realm. He immediately sought to claim the realms of his two most hated rivals and dispatched his hordes of undead and demons to claim their powers.
The lost divinity of Tenebrous existed as a wandering essence of the planes, a vestige that could be called upon by warlocks.
At some point after his restoration as a demon lord, Orcus orchestrated a complicated plot to steal power from the Heart of the Abyss and used it to attack the Raven Queen at her palace in the Shadowfell. He was thwarted once again by a band of intrepid adventurers, and unsuccessful in claiming the goddess divinity.
In the , the Moonsea region was plunged into chaos as the mysterious Order of the Crippled Fang rose to power under leadership of Archmage Maganus. The wizard harbored a grudge against the Zhentarim and against Fzoul Chembryl, the father the organization who was to blame for the deaths of Maganus parents. He developed a plan to destroy Zhentil Keep and spent a decade putting the events into motion. This plan resulted in the Archmages trading his soul in exchange for summoning Orcus to the Prime Material plane. 
The Order of the Crippled Fang crisis culminated in a full-blown demon attack on Zhentil Keep led by Orcus, his lieutenants Quah-Nomag the Skull-King, vampire lord Kauvra, and lich Harthoon. While a pirate blockade led by a mysteriously returned Avagard, a legendary pirate and enemy of Zhentil Keep (in reality, an agent of the Unseen). The conflict cost many lives of the citys defenders and citizens as well as many structures destroyed or damaged. Eventually, the battle culminated in a battle between Maganus and Fzoul Chembryl, while the Hero of Daggerford, Beirmoura, Lyressa, and Sharalyn Lockleaf stood against the demon lord. When the dust settled, the demon hordes were sent back to the Abyss alongside their master, while Maganus faced Zhentil Keeps justice, a very slow and painful death.
400px|Orcus using his power to bring back Cyrog
In the late 15 century DR, Orcus found himself summoned to the Underdark of Faerûn along with other demon lords. There he used his necromantic powers to raise and take control over a dead elder brain named Cyrog. A short time later, Orcus was cast back down to the Abyss by the Prince of Demons Demogorgon. The Wand of Orcus was once again left in the Realms to corrupt some mortal foolish enough to claim it for themselves.
When the death curse afflicted Toril some years later, and fewer souls were sent down to the River Styx, Orcus and the other demon lords of the Abyss took immediate notice. Grazzt managed to waylay both Orcus and even Demogorgon himself, by the Prince of the Undead outmaneuvered his rivals in the end. Orcus managed to open a portal within the land of Chult, so that his minions could recover the source of the death curse, the artifact known as the Soulmonger.
While many mortals worshiped Orcus as a god, he was not capable of granting them powers as a true deity. His followers did receive clerical powers albeit from some unknown source. Some believed these powers originated from the Negative Energy plane itself.
It was speculated that Orcus was responsible for informing mortals of the secret means by which Eltab could be bound to the Prime Material Plane.