The Padhra was the founder and deity of the Padhran religion practiced in the Hordelands. In life, the Padhra was known as Surtava, an ancient Ulgarian prince who abandoned his privileged existence to become a beggar and seek enlightenment. He found it and dedicated the remainder of his life to teaching others his observations. He was sometimes called the Great Teacher
As written in the religious books of the Padhran faith, around , Surtava, an Ulgarian prince, abandoned his crown, his power, and his wealth to become a beggar and seek enlightenment and wisdom.This was "over three thousand years" before the setting date of 1359 DR, i.e., sometime before −1641 DR. It is assumed that "Ulgarian" is another or older demonym for the realm of Ulgarth this is supported by the central role of the river Xon/Gaya in the Padhran faith. The idea of Prince Surtava and his kingdom seems at odds with Ulgarths "centuries of dark barbarism" at the time (The Shining South page 74 Shining South page 179), but there is plenty of time in which a kingdom or princedom may have arisen, or else Surtava is better described as the son of a barbarian warlord.
Prince Surtava was accompanied by a pet leopard named Gaumahavi, and she served as his sole companion, friend, and protector. Thanks to her close contact with Surtava and participation in his quest, Gaumahavi developed an animal soul. The leopard became a supernatural and intelligent beast, capable of speech and writing, and even of a search for enlightenment herself.
At one point, Gaumahavi gave birth, producing a litter of leopard cubs. Most were ordinary animals, but one, Sandiraksiva, was supernatural and bore an animal soul like his mother. Sandiraksiva also joined Surtavas quest.
Legend told that the Great Teacher came to Ra-Khati and the junction of the Dharbang River and the Gogrus River, a point called the Bed of Two Lovers. There he meditated for five weeks without eating or sleeping. In the process, he obtained "the fifth key to enlightenment", coming closer to achieving ultimate harmony. When he stopped meditating, he broke his fast by eating a peach, and tossed the pit in the water. Thereafter, the water was blessed with healing powers and it was a sacred site for Padhran pilgrims.
After years of journeying and mediation, Surtava finally achieved enlightenment.
Afterward, Surtava set the leopards Gaumahavi and Sandiraksiva go free. Mother and cub returned to the jungles, and there followed their own paths toward an animalistic form of enlightenment. When they died, their souls passed on and were reincarnated as higher and higher forms of animal life.
Surtava spent the remainder of this life preaching on what he had learned. He gave two main lectures the Four Baskets of Wisdom, which outlined his views on life and reincarnation, and the Sixfold Path, a code of behavior necessary to ultimately attain "Eaum", in which a beings soul became one with the Great Soul of the Universe.
When Surtava died, he ascended to the heavens and was transformed into the Padhra. 
In time, his soul was joined by the souls of thousands of other beings who also attained Eaum. They became incarnations of the Padhra, called padhrasattvas.
In the 5th century DR, Ra-Khati was a prosperous, open kingdom at the height of its power, but it was said the Padhra became angry at the peoples greed. Thus, in Ra-Khatian belief, he caused a horde of Tuigan horse-riding barbarians from the northern plains to descend on Ra-Khati. They slew the greedy and gluttonous men and sacked the rich cities. Afterward, Ra-Khati closed its borders and grew insular and xenophobic.
Some time around 1359 DR, the Padhra is said to permitted the destruction of Ra-Khatis then capital city, Kushk, during a war with Solon.
In 1359 DR, the Dalai Lama prayed to the Padhra for advice on how to handle Ambuchar Devayams demands and depredations. But, disappointed by Ra-Khatis xenophobia, the Padhra declined to help, only to safeguard the peace if Princess Tsenya Bhrokiti went to Solon, until Ra-Khati rediscovered its courage and wisdom.
Through his teachings, the Enlightened One was taught how to achieve peace and attain "perfect oblivion" and filled his followers with harmony and perfect understanding. The force of the Enlightened One was believed to fill all things, whether alive or dead, organic or mineral. A simple stone might contain a fraction of this force, while people of great will shone with power to those who could read the auras. These auras indicated the state of balance and harmony of the world.
The Padhra provided the antimagic shell that protected the Potala, the palace of the Dalai Lama in Ra-Khati, from attempts to teleport in or out.