Pelor (
Pelor most often appeared as an elderly man with untamed golden hair and a bushy beard, dressed in white garb.
His avatars appeared either in his own form, or that of young children of either sex.
The holy symbol of Pelors faith was a circle with six points that radiated outwards.
ImagePelor symbol 5e.png|5e holy symbol of Pelor.
ImagePelor holy symbol.jpg|4e holy symbol of Pelor.
ImagePelor symbol 3e.jpg|3e holy symbol of Pelor.
Pelor was seen most often as a gentle and sympathetic divine figure that appeared to good-hearted people in their time of need. He and his clergy were not pacifists however, and the the Shining One brought down terrible wrath upon the forces of darkness in the multiverse.
On Oerth, Pelor held dominion over the domains of life and light. goodness, healing, strength, and the sun.
Pelor wielded a +5 flaming disruption heavy mace called Sunscepter.
His deific weapon was a +1 flaming heavy mace.
According to the World Tree cosmological model, Pelor resided within Thalasia, the 4 layer of Elysium, while the World Axis model stated he dwelled in the Bright City of Hestavar in the Astral Plane, along with Erathis and Ioun.
thumb|right|250px|A human champion of Pelor, from some unnamed world.
Pelor was held as an important deity within the Oerthly, Dawn War, He was most often worshiped by the goodly humans of these worlds, among others, especially people that dedicated themselves to the healing arts, as well as adventuring bards, druids, and rangers. Pelors followers were commonly found to be strong-willed individuals, who tended to nature and protected others in his name.
Pelor was among the deities venerated by arcane spellcasters, and was taken as a patron by some goodly warlocks who sought to purge evil from their lands. along with some gold, silver, and steel dragons.
Temples to Pelor were typically built from pure white materials and were kept immaculately clean. They were constructed to accommodate wide open spaces, or built to include numerous windows, in order for ample sunlight to shine within. They often housed functioning hospitals where Pelors faithful could tend to the sick and wounded.
A cult of Pelor in the Shadowfell believed that he and the Raven Queen were two reflections of a single entity, and sought to unite the two divine beings.
There was at least one known shrine to Pelor in Sigil, the City of Doors.
* Hector, who posed as an innocent townsperson but was an oni night haunter in service of the shadar-kai Thoran.
* Pentival, a half-dragon paladin that ventured into the Tomb of Horrors long before the era of the Second Sundering.
Pelors doctrine taught that strength was best exemplified with generosity and penitence. Those with true power never had to demonstrate it to others.
To some scholars, Pelor was known as the "keeper of time".
Pelor was considered a hated foe of another interloper deity, the Midnight Serpent Zehir.
Like other goodly deities, Pelor was served by a number of celestial devas.
In the time before the Dawn War, Pelor and the deities Tharizdun and Ioun discovered the Living Gate that separated the Far Realm from the Astral Sea. The three gods peered through it, learning terrible secrets that changed them forever. Corruptive energy from the Far Realm seeped out into the multiverse, which in turn led to the formation of psionic power. Some time later, Pelor and the god Ioun managed to seal the barrier once again.
That latent psionic power permeated the world of Toril and affected the development of numerous civilizations, including the ancient empire of Jhaamdath and the wilds of the Vilhon Reach.