Poseidon () was an interloper deity of waters worshiped by some in Impiltur in northeast Faerûn. However, like the sea, he was fickle in nature.
Poseidon largely looked like a large, bearded human.
This deity was very volatile, temperamental, and prone to rage. He was known to express his displeasure through extreme acts, such as flattening coastal cities with earthquakes or flooding them.
Poseidon was able to perceive anything within  of worshipers, holy sites, sacred objects, as well as any location where his name or one of his many titles had been spoken in the last hour. He could focus his senses on up to twenty locations.
Prior to the Time of Troubles, he was capable of commanding most non-divine aquatic creatures, conjure water elementals, and create new forms of life.
Poseidon generally fought with his +5 trident. In addition to this enchantment, his trident could store spells as well as had the thundering and returning weapon qualities.
When faced with combat he often surrounded his body in watery haze, providing him protection comparable to that of a +5 ring of protection.
Poseidon typically wore a tunic and carried his aforementioned a trident.
The holy symbol of Poseidon.
Poseidon resided within Aquallor, the second layer of Arborea, but maintained a seaside shrine on the first layer near Mount Olympus.
Poseidon was among the first six Olympians, born to the Greater Titan Cronus. After a curse was placed on him by his mother, swearing that one day his children would usurp him, Cronus proceeded to swallow Poseidon alongside four of his siblings &mdash Demeter, Hades, Hera, and Hestia. His sixth sibling, Zeus, would be smuggled away and years later return to free them all from their imprisonment.
After this war concluded, Poseidon drew lots with his brothers Hades and Zeus to determine which of them would govern the portfolios of sky, the sea, and death.
Poseidon went on to be the husband of Demeter for a time, eventually parting ways as he took up residence in Aquallor.
At some point Poseidon, for reasons unknown, took all the wealth of a mortal named Dunn and placed it within a temple to him in Sylvania. The temples chief priest lured the mans wife away. And one of his proxies swept the mans daughter away to Arborea. Altogether this instilled a sense of hatred towards deities in Dunn, leading him to eventually found the organization known as the Athar and vow that one day Poseidon would die.
In the late 1350s DR, twelve clerics of Poseidon served aboard Rilaunyrs Warship, which was based in Sarshel. Their duties were to heal the crew, provide supplies, and update Lord Rilaunyr on the current state of the sea and Poseidons attitude.
* Some claimed that Poseidon had created, or even fathered, the race of giant-kin known as cyclopes. Other legends claimed that he was responsible for the creation of horses.
* On some worlds it was believed that Poseidon had aided the god Deep Sashelas in banishing Panzuriel.