Great Lord of Eagles
Remnis was the god of giant eagles, a watchful guardian of his patron race who provided them with his guidance and protection. With his sight stretching as far as the horizon, the Great Lord of Eagles awaited the call to action by other gods of the skies, ready to come when needed and render his aid to like-minded deities.
Remnis appeared as a  tall eagle with a  wingspan. His golden form had glowing green eyes.
Remnis was a brave and loyal god that acted dutifully in the best interest of his people.
Avatars of Remnis fought with their beaks and talons, and could create fear in natural avian creatures at will such that they would never attack the Great Lord of Eagles. They could fly at great speed, and were immune to poisons, paralysis, and any spells (such as levitation or web) that negated or negatively impacted flight. With a beat of their wings, avatars could create the effects of fear, fire storm, ice storm, or repulsion.
Remniss realm was not located in in Arborea, where he came to perch, but in the plane he used as his hunting grounds The Beastlands.
Remnis soared throughout the non-evil planes of neutrality (Nirvana, Limbo, The Outlands, and Elysium) as well as the Elemental Plane of Air. In the Beastlands, he flew across the savannahs of all its layers with his hunting parties in tow. Following in his wake were a screeching swarm of giant eagles, rocs, hawks, falcons, fishers, kestrels, and other hunting birds that even a ranger would have difficulty naming. A handful of his only "normal" petitioners — avariels — were also usually with him during these hunts. Rarely did Remnis send an avatar on his own, usually doing so to hunt some magnificent beast or evil, marauding monster.
Remnis jealously watched over giant eagle communities and sometimes appeared to thwart those that would threaten them. Sometimes he just appeared to the eagles, acting as an omen to danger, while at others he drove away those that would attack them or steal their eggs. On rare occasions, an avatar would appear to take a last flight with a wise elder among the giant eagles approaching death, and advise them on which younger members should become the new community leader after their passing.
Remnis (and/or his avatars) willingly served as a mount for many non-evil gods of the sky within human and demihuman pantheons, and for the Seldarine as a whole. He awaited the call to service and provided tireless service and loyal assistance in combat, and revealed the secrets he gathered on his flights to those he served. In return for this service, the gods he aided allowed his offspring to have safe and isolated living spaces.
Remnis was on excellent terms with Aerdrie Faenya, sky goddess of the elves, and Syranita, the aarakocra goddess, When not hunting the skies of the Beastlands, he was visiting the storm giant deity Stronmaus, a friend with whom he frequently flew. The Great Lord of Eagles did not have any particular foes.
Although giant eagles were his primary worshipers, other beings paid at least token homage to the Great lord of Eagles. The djinni of Zakhara gave lip service to many gods, including Remnis, in hopes of pleasing the right ones for their all possible endeavors, and he had a mosque at the djinn capital, the Citadel of Ice and Steel. The aarakocra of the North did not worship him, favoring their own goddess or Akadi, but they still respected him. Most avariels worshiped Aerdrie, but there were a few who were less chaos inclined and in tune with the natural world that preferred the more primal nature of Remnis.