Sehanine Moonbow (), also called Daughter of the Night Skies, Goddess of Moonlight, the Lunar Lady, Moonlit Mystery, the Mystic Seer, the Luminous Cloud, and Lady of Dreams was an elven goddess of death, dreams, heavens, journeys, moon (full moon to be precise), moon elves, stars, and transcendence as well as the most powerful female member of the Seldarine.
Around the time of the Spellplague, Sehanine Moonbow was the fey aspect of the Faerûnian goddess, Selûne.
thumb|Holy symbol of Sehanine Moonbow.
In her avatar form, Sehanine Moonbow looked like a  tall youthful, ageless, female elf clad in a diaphanous gown, that looked like it was made of moonbeam and dropped moonbeam drops every 10 minutes, that could be bottled as potions of invisibility.
Another depiction of Sehanine was as a male elf. This depiction portrayed the Protector and Sehanine as lovers. Characteristic about Sehanines willowy male form were his eyes. They showed a sense of melancholy and tenderness when he was depicted with Corellon.
thumb|A moon elf priest of Sehanine Moonbow.
The Lunar Lady was a very protective deity towards elves. She sent omens to keep her people from danger, crafted illusions around elven hideouts like Evermeet, Myth Dyraalis, Rucien-Xan, and Synnoria, and organized the journeys for elves to these lands.
She hated undead and her followers made it their duty to destroy these beings.
Nonetheless, she was quite an aloof deity and apart from the aforementioned deeds, she kept herself apart from the happenings of Toril.
As a general rule, she did not speak in a direct manner. Instead, she relied on dreams, visions, etc. to relay information.
Sehanine Moonbow was noted as the most powerful of the female elven deities but her power was not stable. To be more precise, it fluctuated with the phase of the moon. She was at her most powerful under full moon, and practically powerless during daytime.
She could cast spells from all spheres and schools but favored those of the all, astral, charm, divination, guardian, healing, necromantic, protection, summoning, sun, and travel.
Illusion spells cast by the Lunar Lady were hard to resist against and just looking at her could cause a person to sleep for ten to forty minutes. She could cast sleep and false seeing, the former three times per day, the latter once every minute against one creature within 120 ft. (36.58 m) and was particulary hard to resist. While walking, she created a trail of motes of moonlight and shot it anywhere she wanted to shoot with it. Once every minute, she could create a moonbow and moonbridge. When casting dream, she did not need to enter a trance.
The Daughter of the Night Skies was completely immune to illusions and any effect directed at altering her mind. It was impossible to hurt her with a weapon that was less enchanted than a +2 weapon.
Sehanine Moonbow owned the Moonshaft, a +2 quarterstaff with the abilities of staff of the moonglow and staff of night. This weapon was her favored weapon, but was not used as often as other items and abilities such as wands, spells, and her innate abilities. Other items of hers were her gown, a cloak of displacement, a wand of polymorphing, and a wand of paralyzation.
Sehanine Moonbow had her realm in Arvandor, which was found on the layer of the same name within the plane of Arborea.
As mentioned under Personality, Sehanine Moonbow protected her people’s hideouts via illusions. and seek out/excavate magical lore, especially ones concerning divination and illusion magic.
Elves believed in reincarnation and the Mystic Seer, alongside Corellon Larethian, were believed the ones to guide the elves towards an end point of perfection. 
Sehanine Moonbow was a member of the Seldarine and had good relationships with the other members. She was either the daughter or wife of Corellon Larethian
Her personality trait of kindness was such, that she could bring Fenmarel Mestarine, who isolated himself after an affair with Lolth, to Arvandor on occasion, as well as to calm down Shevarash during his fits of rage.
She was an aspect of Angharradh alongside Aerdrie Faenya and Hanali Celanil. However, she was the primary aspect and the others merely secondary ones.
Sehanine Moonbow was an enemy of the Dark Seldarine. She opposed Lolth and was specifically hated by Vhaeraun for escaping his prison. The one exception to this rule was Eilistraee, whom she considered an adopted daughter, but had a strained and distant relationship with.
Sehanine Moonbow was an ally of Baravar Cloakshadow, Cyrrollalee, Dumathoin, Kelemvor, Leira, Lurue, Milil, Mystra, Oberon, Savras, Segojan Earthcaller, Shaundakul, Selûne, Titania, and Urogalan.
Sehanine Moonbow was an enemy of Cyric, Gruumsh, the Gods of Fury, Myrkul, the Queen of Air and Darkness, Shar, and Velsharoon.
How Sehanine Moonbow came to be was unknown, but one theory posited, that she was Corellon’s daughter. It was believed that the elves originated from a mixture of Corellon’s blood and Sehanine’s tears. 
She and Araushnee (later known as Lolth) were rivals over the favor of the Protector. She was one of those who participated at the creation of Sahandrian, Corellons sword.
When Araushnee tampered with the sheath of Corellon, so it would break during Corellons fight against Gruumsh, she did so under a full moon, not only when Sehanine was at her strongest, but also in plain sight of her. When the sword broke, Sehanine came in to help Corellon prevail against Gruumsh.
Sehanine confronted Araushnee during daytime, and got trapped and imprisoned by Vhaeraun. Around the time, when the War of the Seldarine ended, she came free under heavy but undefined sacrifices and kept Araushnee from poisoning Corellon. She then created Angharradh with Hanali and Aerdrie.