Selûne (
thumb|left|Luna, an avatar of Selûne.
In both her avatars and her religious artwork, Selûne appeared in many forms, like the phases of the moon. One was a dusky-skinned human woman with long limbs perfect and exquisite beauty wide, radiant, lime-green eyes and long, ivory-hued hair that fell to her knees. Another was an ethereal young girl of slender frame, dark eyes, and dark hair, wearing diaphanous robes colored white or resembling dappled moonlight, which trailed her "moondust" or "moon motes". A third was a matronly middle-aged woman, plump yet fair and aging gracefully, with gray-streaked dark hair. This one sometimes lived among mortals the most notable such avatar was the innkeeper Luna. A simple depiction of the goddess was of a womans face on the disc of the moon.
She was also ever changing, aging but ageless. If watched over time, her appearance seemed to grow to full radiance or to age and fade away, in keeping with the waxing or waning of the moon. Such changes only affected her external appearance and did not reflect any change in might, at least to mortal eyes. But, over time, she did indeed wax and wane in power and prominence.
In any form or state, whenever she was in darkness, Selûnes avatar continually emanated a faint blue-white glow like moonlight.
Like the cycles of the moon, Selûne had many and changing moods and natures. Her faithful, coming from many walks of life, viewed her in countless different ways, and she reflected this. Sometimes she was enthusiastic, vivacious, joyous, and majestic, given to action and dance. At other times, she was subdued, motherly, and almost poetic or tranquil and embracing. Then she was remote and weighed down by sadness at defeats and tragedies, even those that happened long, long ago. Finally, she could be aggressive and fierce, but cold, and with little mercy for her enemies. These shifting personalities made her versatile. Nevertheless, she was viewed as a calm power circa 1489 DR.
More often than not, Selûne was caring and accepting of most beings, and forgiving of most of her followers faults. She was both ageless and ancient. She was quietly mystical and, as a being of chaos, well used to change. She had a serene and peaceful nature and was slow to anger she would not fight if she could help it, but nor did she hold back if she must. She was fiercely protective when confronted by evil. The one constant was her eternal conflict with Shar.
She was generous and freely bestowed gifts and blessings on mortals. She also made few demands of her followers. When beseeched by her clergy, she always responded.
thumb|right|250px|Selûne battles Shar, while her Shards swoop overhead.
When manifested as an avatar, she could cast a wide variety of magical spells, except those of the plant sphere and any that conjured darkness. She would avoid reversed and injurious forms of healing spells and necromantic sphere spells, unless absolutely necessary. She could freely cast divination spells, even alongside other spells. Her spells all had a similar appearance, beginning as streaks of moonbeams and only revealing their true effect when they struck. She radiated protection from evil to a distance of a 100 yards (90 meters), and no good summoned creature within this range could be dispelled or banished. Meanwhile, a holy word from her automatically banished evil extraplanar beings.
She could not be damaged by electricity and light spells, and could not be affected by illusion, enchantment, or charm and charm sphere spells. No lycanthrope could attack her. She could not be detected or revealed by divination magic unless she willed it.
If pressed into battle, Selûne was an awesome warrior, fighting with divine fury but with martial and magical skill in coordination.
She typically manifested as trails of dancing motes of light, similar to will-o-wisps, commonly called "moondust" or "moon motes", which could shed moonlight where there should be none. In this form, she guided travelers lost in the night or journeying over hazardous terrain, and came to shine for her faithful when light was needed for a delicate action. These moon motes occasionally exuded a radiant, sparkling, pearly-hued liquid known as "drops fallen from the moon", which was the holy essence of Selûne and was prized by the faithful.
To indicate her favor or presence or to help mortals, Selûne might send owls weredragons or song dragons certain breeds of good lycanthropes or other shapechanging creatures or one of her loyal planetar servants known as the Shards, Other signs were the colors blue and silver and the appearance of moonstones. For example, a Selûnite captured by Sharrans who spied a moonstone ring on one of their fingers would understand there was a spy in the cult. Selûne would also create moonfire for her faithful during a ritual, which could enchant items or the worshipers themselves.
Finally, Selûne could sense any deed that occurred in the open light of the moon, anywhere in the world. She could also instantly create any magical item that could heal, influence shapechangers, or bestow spells of the Moon domain.
thumb|left|The moon Selûne and her Tears.
She was believed to control the ebb and flow of the tides and to comfort those in need during the night. Her moon shined a light in the darkness, holding evil at bay. She had infused her spirit with the moon, and there eternally watched over the world. Through the moon, she controlled the powers of lycanthropes. Lycanthropy was often known by the euphemism "Selûnes Kiss" one so touched was said to be "kissed by Selûne".
In the time of Netheril, and later in the Shining Lands under the guise of Lucha, she was believed to guide herders to good pastures, to aid ships lost on the sea and travelers lost in the wilds, to deliver love to those who sought it and bless marriages, to guarantee the safety of births, and to watch over relationships and connections between people. In Netheril, Selûne blessed all things beautiful purely for the sake of their beauty, and granted visions to people who desired them for good purposes.
Avatars of Selûne most often wandered the Outer Planes, seeking out magical lore or an advantage to help her destroy Shar once and for all. She was reluctant to manifest avatars in Faerûn, as Shar took joy in obliterating them there. However, Selûne often provided her priests with temporary powers or spells to help them achieve the missions she gave them.
Selûne was in constant conflict with Shar, her sister and the goddess of darkness. Their war was the eternal drama of the sky, vital to the balance of nature the dark of the night devouring the light of the moon, before the moon was renewed and the cycle repeated. In their never-ending struggle across the sky, Selûne was slain by Shar at every new moon. They fought incessantly to undercut the other.
Babes born beneath a full moon often grew up to exhibit magical talent, thanks to Selûnes link with Mystra.
Folk were encouraged to pray to Selûne under moonlight, for she gained real power at such times. Furthermore, she could guide those who meditated under moonlight, even if they did not pray to her.
thumb|right|Argentil, standing on an island in the middle of the sea of the Gates of the Moon.
Selûne dwelled in a planar realm called the Gates of the Moon. Under the World Axis cosmology, the Gates of the Moon was a dominion in the Astral Sea. In the middle of the Gates of the Moon, Selûne resided in a shining silver hall named Argentil, a place of beauty, quietness, and moonlight.
In battle, Selûne sometimes wielded a moon blade +3, in fact a lasting form of the moon blade spell. However, her favored weapon was the Rod of Four Moons (also called the Wand of Four Moons), a four-flanged heavy mace of potent magical power. Selûnes scale mail comprised opalescent, circular scales that glowed faintly with silver light she donned it only in battle, but might lend it to beings on a quest for her, without losing any of its protection herself.
Selûne counted as her allies fellow deities of the moon, beauty, fortune, joy, light, magic, and weather. Among them were the first Mystra and the second Mystra, who was her greatest ally against Shar since 1358 DR. Eilistraee and Lliira, meanwhile, shared her love of frolicking under the moon. Even after parting ways, Selûne continued to have fully cooperative and amiable relationships with Sune and Lliira both. Selûne respected Lathander for his passion, and hoped they could cooperate to shine light on Shars dark deeds. Other allies were Sehanine Moonbow, an elven goddess of the moon, whom she worked closely with fellow gods of travelers and mariners Shaundakul and Valkur the goddesses of nature Chauntea and Eldath and Tymora, goddess of luck. She was also allies with Angharradh, Corellon, and Cyrrollalee. Outside the Realms, she was on good terms with Celestian, Hermes, and Soma, gods of other worlds.
Her eternal enemy was her sister Shar, goddess of the night, a war that had been waged since before all other Faerûnian gods existed, before time was recorded. They fought constantly in all realms of existence, across the sky at night and in other planes, waged through their mortal followers and their servitor beings, and in person. Selûne labored always to thwart Shars dark plots. They would never forgive and never forget.
Her other great foes were Mask, for the mischief and wickedness he made in the shadows formed by her moons light at night Umberlee, over the fates of ships at sea and the rotting god Moander. In the time of Netheril, she was opposed to Moander, Kozah, and Targus. However, Targus, god of war, thought Selûne was too beautiful, in soul and self, for him to hate. The deity of the dark side of the moon – Jessar, was an enemy of Selûne and Sharess.
The Zakharan deity Selan was a moon goddess who shared a similar name and outlook with Selûne, but had a somewhat different area of interest, namely beauty.Thus the connection between the two remains a mystery, though Selûnes earlier Netherese incarnation was also a goddess of beauty.
She was served specially by the Shards, a band of unique planetars of shining aspect. They usually bestowed mortals with gifts and boons on her behalf.
Selûne was the mother of Dame Aylin, an aasimar that battled against the forces of the Absolute.
thumb|left|The holy symbol of Selûne.
Her holy symbol was a bright pair of eyes of a darkly beautiful human woman, encircled by seven silver stars.
Selûne and her teachings of compassion and guidance were appealing to all folk who lived their lives by the moonlit night sky, and hence her faithful were a very diverse group. She was followed by those who were lost and those who were questing. Sailors and navigators, who traveled by the stars, often prayed to the Night White Lady to protect them from Umberlee, the Queen of the Depths. Others who labored by night at honest work prayed to her for similar reasons. Some sought her for protection in the dark or from the dark forces of Shar. Lycanthropes, whether those of good heart, neutrality, or a few who relished their condition, honored the Moonmaiden as the mistress of their nature. Astrologers, diviners, fortune-tellers, mystics, and those just curious about the future acknowledged her as a ruler of fate. Female spellcasters revered her, particularly those born during a full moon or who had an interest in divination, and a few dedicated themselves to her. She was also worshiped by illusionists, some sages, and good thieves.
In particular, she was commonly worshiped by human women. They looked to Selûne for guidance, courage, and strength, while couples hoped she would bless them with children when the time was right. In the 14 century DR, the churchs ideology of female empowerment made her popular with alewives, laundresses, seamstresses, and servants.
thumb|right|350px|A half-elven cleric of Selûne wielding her holy symbol.
Meanwhile, the churchs philosophy of self-reliance and finding ones path made her popular with all kinds of mavericks, eccentrics, and outsiders, such as adventurers and outcasts. She was one of those gods worshiped by non-wicked tieflings of the late 15 century DR.
Even those not dedicated to Selûne would pay their respects to her. For example, a band of adventurers on a night-time raid might make an offering to Selûne for guidance. Most goodly folk paid homage to Selûne during the full moon. Even evil thieves would try to placate her.
In the Shining Lands of Durpar, Estagund, and Var the Golden in southeast Faerûn, Selûne was known as Lucha, She Who Guides. Here, she was seen as part of the Adama, a unifying world spirit that included all gods, the world, and everything. Almost everyone in Durpar worshiped Lucha, in the belief that she personally watched over all marriages performed by her priests, as most marriages in Durpar were. It was also believed she guided traders to the best customers.
The itinerant Gurs of the Western Heartlands followed Selûne, for she was a goddess of wanderers and navigation. They thought of themselves as "children of Selûne".
According to Moonsea superstition, one who mocked Selûne while aboard a ship would never complete their voyage. The sailors of Thentia took this very seriously. Furthermore, Thentians saw the whole Moonsea as sacred to the goddess.
Moonstones were believed to be sacred to Selûne by her followers. Some folk believed silver to be Selûnes hardened tears. Silver cups were the favored receptacles for milk offerings to Selûne.
Those who believed in the Dark Moon heresy held that Selûne and Shar were two faces of the same goddess.
By 1489 DR, some tiefling followers of Selûne claimed to have received visions of her in their own image, describing her as the "pale horned goddess of the moon". Such visions were claimed by tieflings of several faiths, such as Tymoras. Though disturbing to mainstream churches, the tieflings argued these visions meant the heart and soul meant more to the gods than appearance and bloodline.
Selûne was believed to be one of the oldest deities known in Faerûn. Many legends were told about her, the central one being her conflict with her sister Shar at the beginning of all things. but it was repeated in so many religions in Faerûn it was widely held to be true.
thumb|right|250px|The goddesses Shar and Selûne locked in their eternal battle of dark and light.
According to one of the most ancient myths of the creation of the world and the heavens, after the universe and its crystal sphere were created by Lord Ao, there was naught but the primordial essence, the protoplasmic raw stuff of existence. Described as chaos and timeless nothingness, the sphere was filled with no more than dim misty shadows, neither light nor dark, for such things had not yet separated. (All that moved here were the shadevari, the thirteen lords of shadow, whose origin, whether from elsewhere or from the shadow itself, is unknown. and brought order out of the chaos.
Together, they created from the cosmic ether Abeir-Toril and the other heavenly bodies and infused these worlds with life. In the process, they formed the goddess Chauntea (at that time, the embodiment of all matter in Realmspace, later only of the world of Abeir-Toril), whom they worked with to bless the worlds with life. This universe was illuminated by the cool radiant face of Selûne and darkened by the hair and welcoming embrace of Shar. However, there was no fire or heat on any of these bodies. Desiring to nurture life on the worlds that formed her body and limbs, Chauntea asked the Two-Faced Goddess for warmth. Then, for the first time, Selûne and Shar were divided, being of two minds on whether they should let there be more life on the worlds or not.
The two goddesses then fought over the fate of their creations. From the residues of these struggles emerged the original deities of magic, war, disease, murder, death, and others.Faiths & Avatars page 141 has Selûne create the Sun after the beginning of the war with Shar, while Faiths & Pantheons page 56 has this as the trigger for the war with Shar.
This greatly enraged Shar she renewed her assault on her injured sister and began to blot out all light and warmth in the universe, or the lights of Selûne, gravely weakening her. Desperate to protect the early life, Selûne tore out some of her own divine essence, though it nearly killed her, and hurled it at her sister. Selûnes essence tore through Shar, bonding with some of Shars essence and pulling it loose. This magical energy combined to form the goddess Mystryl, the original goddess of magic. Although Mystryl was composed of both light and dark magic, she initially sided with Selûne, her first mother, giving her the upper hand. Mystryl balanced the conflict and mediated an uneasy truce. Shar was cast into her darkness for centuries, enabling light and warmth to bathe Abeir-Toril and the other worlds.
However, the battle left Selûne deeply wounded, and thereafter her power would wax and wane with the ages, though she would gain strength from alliances with her daughters and sons, as well as interloper deities from other planes. Meanwhile, Shar, whod retained much of her might, once again grew strong, and was aided by the shadevari. Consumed with bitterness and loneliness, she vowed revenge and lurked in the darkness until her time to strike. The war between the sisters would go on forever more, with battles both large and small, obvious and subtle, but life struggled and flourished on the worlds, watched over by Chauntea.
When the primordials began to attack the newly born worlds of Realmspace, Shar and Selûne set aside their differences temporarily and moved to defend those worlds against the threat. Other gods were born from the conflict or were summoned from other universes to aid the native gods in their struggles against the primordials and their servants. This conflict was later known as the Dawn War.
Selûne was worshiped by the Netherese in the ancient empire of Netheril, where she was known as part of the Netherese pantheon, alongside Shar, Mystryl, Jannath (later known as Chauntea), Amaunator, Jergal, Kozah, Moander, Targus, and Tyche. A temple dedicated to Selûne, the Abbey of the Moon, was established in .
In the Year of Sundered Webs, −339 DR, Karsuss Folly triggered the death of Mystryl and caused the cataclysmic Fall of Netheril. The city of Opus was believed to have escaped the destruction visited upon the other Netherese enclaves. It wasnt clear how this happened, but some sources told that Selûne herself saved the city. She did indeed, spiriting the entire city and its citizens into the Gates of the Moon, where it was named Selûnarra.
During the divine conflict known as the Dawn Cataclysm, Tyche, the goddess of luck, was covertly corrupted by Moander, the god of decay, whilst on her travels. She returned to her realm and found Selûne, a dear friend, had come to speak with her, as well as the god of the dawn Lathander, Tyches ex-lover and instigator of the Dawn Cataclysm, and the god of mages, Azuth, whod come to mediate. However, seeing the rot within Tyche, Selûne began to weep great tears and swiftly struck her with a bolt of light intended to purify her. However, Tyche instead split down the middle, producing first Tymora, the goddess of good luck, and then Beshaba, goddess of bad luck. The twins immediately fell to fighting and were separated only by Selûne, Lathander, and Azuth. In Tymora, Selûne had saved all that was good and pure in Tyche.
Afterward, Selûne grieved the death of Tyche, her close friend and ally. In her weeping, she shed one crystalline tear, which fell to ground as a meteor in the land of Thar. It became a great and sacred artifact, called the Tear of Selûne.
thumb|right|With the wand of power, the unsuspecting Selûne and a disguised Imgig Zu ride to Toril.
A legend titled the Song of Selûne told of her as a youthful goddess, residing in a mystic realm populated by deities. Impulsive and bored of a life of ease, she "borrowed" a wand of power from "her father" and used it to fly away in a bubble of force, so that she might experience life in other realms.The idea that Selûne has a father seems at odds with the conventional creation myth of the Realms, in which Selûne is said to have coalesced out of the primordial essence of Realmspace and no "father" is mentioned. However, since these sources also say Lord Ao created Realmspace, it is likely that this "father" is Ao. On the other hand, it is possible that this father is strictly the father of Luna, Selûnes avatar.
In time, she encountered a mysterious and attractive warrior, Imgig Zu, a lord of his people, and was smitten. He persuaded her to use the wand to transport him and his followers to Toril, but once they landed, they revealed themselves as hideous shapechanging monsters bent on conquest and ruin. Imgig Zu seized the wand of power and intended to kill the deceived goddess. Fortunately, a brave young wizard rode to her rescue, causing enough confusion and chaos that Selûne could escape. The goddess, now freed, used her own life force to imprison the monsters inside a pocket dimension within a moonstone, now known as Selûnes Eye.
However, Selûne had weakened herself and sacrificed her immortal youthful vitality and beauty, aging thousands of years. This was a fact she kept hidden from the young wizard. The story had a few alternate endings. In some, Selûne learned her lesson and went back to her home, and brought the young mage with her. In others, Selûne died because of her sacrifice, but was resurrected come the next full moon. Still others told that the young mage loved her, but she rejected his advances because she was no longer young or beautiful.Luna closely resembles an aged version of the Selûne depicted in the Song of Selûne, implying this is the same avatar.
Selûne had been an independent deity for millennia, but her might waned and in time she came to serve Sune, goddess of love, for several centuries.
In the mid–14th century DR, Selûne aided the god-like cat lords. In late 1340s DR, the conman and thief Conner attempted to rescue the young Vajra Valmeyjar from slavery to Pasha Abon Duum in Manshaka. He failed, but as he lay dying beneath a desert moon, Selûne healed him through divine intervention. He survived, but continually tried and failed to rescue Vajra. At some point in the 1350s DR, known only as a mysterious woman, Selûne appeared to Conner. She foretold certain signs and sent him into the midst of a vicious battle between the old Catlord and the god Malar, the Beastlord, to rescue the kittenlord from Duums grasp. Conner claimed to be on a mission from a god to protect the child and the Catlord allowed him to carry the child away, and Conner was guided by the foretold signs. Thus Conner became the guardian of the cat lords heir.
For a long time, Selûne had chosen to live her life as a mortal woman in the city of Waterdeep. Named Luna, she ran the Selûnes Smile inn and tavern in the city.Although she is but an avatar of Selûne, Luna has a history and personality distinct from the deity and is a regular character of the Advanced Dungeons & Dragons comics series. Thus, this article chooses to treat Luna as an independent being to maintain focus on Luna and avoid overwhelming the main Selûne article. The deviations from the standard story of Selûne support this approach. Therefore, only events prior to the comic, key events, and a summary of relevant other events are included in this article for more detail, please see the main Luna article.
In the Year of Shadows, 1358 DR, the Time of Troubles came, magic went awry, and the gods were forced to walk the Realms in mortal form. But Selûne was already doing just that as Luna, and remained unaware. Restricting herself to only non-divine powers, she knew no more than her mortal friends, until Onyx reported the appearance of an avatar in Waterdeep—an avatar of Selûne, one who was not Luna. Luna was shaken by the news and was shocked to discover she could no longer access her divine powers. Vajra and Luna went to investigate the other avatar. First, on Lunas instruction, Vajra snuck into the House of the Moon to find the Wand of the Four Moons. When she couldnt find it, Luna began to doubt herself, wondering which of them was the real goddess. They then went to see the false Selûne for themselves. Luna confronted her, the other called her deluded and attacked her with spells and finally used the Wand of the Four Moons to knock Luna out. The temple guards took Luna prisoner, and the false Selûne declared she would drive her mad before killing her.
Her true identity unknown to the clergy, Luna was kept as a prisoner at the House of the Moon, completely under the control of the false Selûne, who used her stolen identity to confuse Luna and make her doubt herself. Over time, she broke her spirit and bent her to her will. Forgetting who she really was, Luna was reinvented as a faithful servant of Selûne and a member of the Lunatics, a fanatic Selûnite order.
thumb|left|250px|Selûnes light blasting Shars Rod of Oblivion, during their battle over Waterdeep.
She even led a squad of Lunatics against her friends when they came to rescue her. They caught her, thinking she was Shar, but were shocked to find Luna under the mask. Her light blasted away Shars darkness, while she reminded her of their unceasing battle and the balance they must uphold, a balance restored by her friends. Shar vanished, and this avatar of Selûne became Luna once more.
Following the Godswar of 1358 DR, Selûne and Sune parted on good terms and Selûne was free to do as she willed again. Since then, she set out on her own once more, making new alliances in her unending war against Shar, such as with the new Mystra. With her growing faith, theologians of the 1360s DR predicted Selûne would once again be elevated among the gods, possibly within their own lifetimes.
Around 1367 DR, there were frequent stories of people sighting Selûne gliding above the waters of the Moonsea. Meanwhile, sailors defending the goddesss name in tavern brawls saw their blades glow softly with a pale violet light. Her worship flourished in Thentia.
When the city of Zhentil Keep in the Moonsea lands was ruined by the mad god Cyrics actions in the Year of the Banner, 1368 DR, the sacred Tear of Selûne and the Seekers who found it were reported to have been in the city at the time. It was theorized by some theologians that Selûne had engineered this, to ensure the Tear was present during the terrible events, but, if true, her reasons were unknown.
The Spellplague happened in the Year of Blue Fire, 1385 DR. Selûne helped Kepeshkmolik Thymara to aid the other dragonborn survivors from Tymanchebar. She also entrusted Thymara with Nanna-Sins holy weapon, the Black Axe of the Moons Champion. When Thymara asked Selûne what she was expecting in return for her help, Selûne only answered that she wanted the dragonborn to thrive on Toril. Thanks to Selûnes help, the dragonborn survivors were able to gather and found the city-citadel of Djerad Thymar.
After the Spellplague, Selûne became a popular deity across Faerûn, as her priesthood made pilgrimages to every corner of the continent, wanting to bring hope to people in those desperate times.