Shaktari was a lesser demon lord referred to as the Queen of Mariliths.
Shaktari resembled a gargantuan marilith with black skin, burning eyes, horns, and eight arms instead of the normal six.
Shaktari had the abilities of a normal marilith, though her extra arms allowed her to make even more attacks than normal. She was also amphibious, being equally comfortable on land and in water she was also capable of innately casting fly at will. Additionally, any weapon Shaktari held immediately became covered in poison even worse, she had a aura of toxin that suppressed any resistance or immunity to poison that creatures within  of her had, and negated the effects of spells such as delay poison or neutralize poison that attempted to halt or lessen the effects of a poison. She could prevent this aura from effecting creatures of her choosing.
Shaktaris realm was Vudra, the 531st layer of the Abyss.
Shaktari was weakened by her imprisonment and was forced to retreat to Vudra to recover her strength, and spent most of her time slumbering beneath the Blood Sea. However, it seemed certain that once she had recovered she would once again take to the fields of battle.
Shaktari was the queen of the mariliths, and those demons made up the vast majority of her servants. However, some serpentine creatures such as yuan-ti and nagas worshiped her as well.
For eons, Shaktari was one of the most active demon lords involved in the Blood War. She lead devastating armies of mariliths to legendary victories over the devils. However, her success was cut short when she was imprisoned in the Wells of Darkness. The exact events surrounding her imprisonment are unknown, but rumors claimed that no less than three archdevils made a deal with several demon lords in order to do so.
Eons later, Shaktari escaped the Wells of Darkness is an equally legendary and mysterious escape- the number of beings who have escaped the Wells of Darkness can be counted on one hand. Rumors claimed that her escape was engineered by a baernoloth eager to see the violence of the Blood War escalate once more.