Tefnut was the goddess of storms and water in the Pharaonic pantheon.
Tefnuts true form was that of a slender, attractive woman with the head of a lioness. This was the only form her avatar was known to take. The air around her always smelled of rain and lightning.
As she embodied the moisture of the atmosphere in both its calm and wrathful forms, her mood and disposition was very mercurial. Sometimes she was fierce and full of hostility, while at other times she was gentle and loving. However, she was not cruel and would never destroy without cause. Changed in her mood could typically be sensed reading the weather.
Tefnut possessed a wide array of magical abilities. This included being capable of calling upon wind storms, shapechanging at will, speaking with the dead, teleporting, and conjuring water elementals.
Her avatar form had access to spells from the spheres all, animal, astral, elemental, summoning, sun, and weather.
Tefnut generally fought by striking her foes with lightning bolts. If this proved to be ineffective, she would teleport away from the scene of battle.
Tefnut possessed an enchanted sword that she could command to transform into a stroke of lightning. She also had packs of lionesses that accompanied her wherever she went. They obeyed her every command and would defend her without hesitation.
Tefnut was created alongside her twin brother Shu by the deity Ra and went on to produce numerous offspring with him. The first of these were Geb (the earth) and Nut (the sky).
When her group of deities were asked by Ao through the intervention of Ptah to assist their worshipers who had been abducted by the Imaskari to Toril, Tefnut stayed behind together with Nut and Shu at the command of Ra.
Tefnut resided within the plane of Bytopia, in the layer of Shurrock, in a realm known as Windwrath that sat atop one of Bytopias many mountains. It was constantly beset by rain and winds that only let up occasionally, which petitioners hid from inside of cavern villages. The largest of these was known as Ston-khat and led by a proxy named Dyalotep the Lame. They spent their time serving Tefnut and aiding any passerbys.
Besides that divine realm, she was believed to reside on the Elemental Plane of Water.
Tefnuts brother-husband was very protective of her and would bring vengeance upon any who dared to harm her. Oftentimes Horus-Re would help him in such endeavors.
The priests of Tefnut were typically known to wear scale helmets Her priests could predict the weather with absolute accuracy, and had access to the spells call lightning, control weather, and weather summoning. Her priests were expected to cherish storms, thus it was not uncommon to find them outside during fierce downpours. Their sacrifices to her took the form of animals.
While Tefnut was never worshiped by the Mulan of Toril,