Thoth, (Pronounce|thoth|refs=
left|250px|thumb|The Holy Symbol of Thoth.
Thoth usually appeared as a slender Mulan male possessing the head of an ibis. He wore a linen skirt and gold breastplate, and often wore a wig.
The will of Thoth was often communicated through the actions and appearance of constructs, golems, and animals such as monkeys or water birds. He often drew the attention of his followers to important information through the call of an ibis or visual illumination. Engineering marvels in Mulhorand were marked by the holy symbol of Thoth in some part of their construction, signifying that the King of Knowledge was pleased by such work.
Thoth used arcane and divine spells with equal ease, and always cast spells deftly and efficiently. Thoth possessed the ability to fly at will and could negate magical effects as he chose. He could control any constructs in his vicinity.
His quarterstaff was almost always close at hand. Thoths Staff of Office was both a powerful artifact and a repository of ancient magic Thoth could draw upon. Those struck by his staff faced instant death.
Thoth was an elder member of the Mulhorandi pantheon, and considered Horus-Re, Isis, and Osiris to be close allies. He also forged favorable relationships with Azuth, Deneir, Gond, Oghma, Mystra, and Savras. Only Set and his followers were seen as true enemies of Thoth, though he was known to intervene in the actions of the Red Wizards of Thay as well.
Thoth felt indifference towards the rest of Faeruns deities of magic. Unlike Isis he held no strong feelings towards the Shadow Weave, viewing it simply as a foreign tool for magic and nothing more.
Worship of Thoth was most common among the scribes and historians of Mulhorand, but could also be found in the nations of Unther and and Murghom. He was also often considered a patron of neutral-aligned spellcasters.
Clergy of the church of Thoth typically wore linen skirts or robes and sandals. Their shaven heads bore the concentric blue circles that signified their calling, and they carried writing utensils and parchment with them at all times. When preparing for combat, clergy of Thoth equipped themselves appropriately for the situation but avoided armor and selected simple weapons whenever possible.
Clerics of Thoth prayed for spells at dawn.
right|150px|thumb|A priestess of Thoth.Clergy in the church of Thoth were typically Mulan belonging to the House of Tholaunt, a house composed of mortal descendants of incarnations of Thoth himself. These individuals devoted much of their time to continual research and study, as well as spreading the knowledge obtained in this way to the people of Mulhorand.
The center of the church of Thoth was the Arcanum of Magic, located in the city of Gheldaneth. Temples dedicated to Thoth typically served as the libraries and centers of learning of Mulhorand. These structures often incorporated and showcased grand feats of engineering and foreign knowledge in their design.
The church of Thoth ran the scribes guild in Mulhorand, the members of which often served as record keepers and in other similar government positions.
 Order of the Ibis FeatherThese elite scribes directly served the pharaoh of Mulhorand.
 Brothers and Sisters of the QuillThese priests and wizards were charged with retrieving and protecting the secrets of their nation in the lands beyond Mulhorands border.
The holy symbol of Thoth was the first thing depicted on any document created by a member of his clergy.
 Ceremony of IntrospectionTo symbolize their dedication to pure understanding, the clergy of Thoth fasted and bathed in cold water on the days of the summer and winter solstices.
Thoth and Oghma were engaged in friendly competition to determine who could gain the most followers in the nation of Unther.
During the Second Sundering, Thoth and other deities from the pantheon returned in the form of demigods and led the Mulhorandi uprising against the Imaskari, in a manner similar to how the Chosen manifested in other regions. As of 1489 DR, Mulhorand was led by the returned pantheon, who temporarily set their differences aside for the good of the Mulhorandi people.