Velsharoon (), also known as Mellifleur,Mellifleur, later known as, was a multi-sphere lesser deity of liches first described in Monster Mythology. Velsharoon took his name as an alias, but their relationship is unclear, as they shared some similarities but also differed in many details. was the Faerunian demigod of necromancy, the patron of liches and those that explored undeath. Arrogant and obsessed, the Archmage of Necromancy continued his experiments on the living and the dead as a god, paying no heed to the lesser lives lost in the name of his research and encouraging his disciples to do the same.
Velsharoon appeared as a gaunt, sallow-skinned man  in height, his deathly cold flesh stretched thin over his bones, and whose thin and graying hair flowed across his back in a snarl. He dressed in purple, worm-ridden, moth-eaten robes, with a tarnished silver crown on his head. His eyes were pitch black pits with tiny green flames moving malevolently within.
Velsharoons favored manifestation was a burning skull, wreathed in red, pale blue or blue-green flames. He was fond of using various gemstones to denote his favor or presence of hues including black, purple, maroon, rust-red, gray, and a bright and unnatural green reminiscent of green slimes. The sudden appearance of a bloodrose was said to herald him.
As a god, Velsharoon was canny, yet extremely vain and selfish, concerned overmuch with revenge and experimenting on both living and dead. This was not a great change from the mortal he was.
In his humanoid form, Velsharoon wielded the Skull Staff of the Necromancer.
Velsharoon had his divine realm called Deaths Embrace on Mungoth, the third mount of Gehenna in the Great Wheel cosmology. In the World Tree cosmology it lay on the magical plane of Dweomerheart, far underground beneath Azuth and The Eye. In appearance a moldy tomb, Deaths Embrace was a repository of all necromantic knowledge.
Although he nominally served Azuth (and through him, Mystra), Velsharoon re-established a secret alliance with Talos and a flirtatious relationship with Shar.
He became an ally of Kiaransalee, and a foe of Jergal, Sehanine Moonbow and Urogalan.
After the Second Sundering, Velsharoon was believed to think little of Myrkul, considering him a do-nothing has-been, with Myrkul returning a symmetrical sentiment for the grasping upstart. https//twitter.com/TheEdVerse/status/1246852006251319298 this tweet
right|thumb|250px|The unholy symbol of Velsharoon.
As a Red Wizard of Thay, Velsharoon fought a spell-battle to a draw against Omm Hlandrar of Halruaa in the skies over the Shaar in the .Although Velsharoon is stated to be a Red Wizard, the Red Wizards are not known to have been established until the next century. It is possible the Red Wizards were founded earlier, this is actually a precursor organization, or that Velsharoon became a Red Wizard later and this is a retrospective application of the term.
Once, Velsharoon had sought the position of Zulkir of Necromancy, but he feuded with several other Red Wizards, including his chief rival, Szass Tam, who saw him driven out of Thay. and Mempter. The former four had challenged Velsharoon in his wicked plots. In turn, the arch-necromancer worked to acquire enough power to destroy those whod opposed him.
In the Plains of Purple Dust, he had discovered a process to achieve demigodhood through a potion which called for  the blood of adventurers. As a god, he was granted Cyrics portfolio over necromancy sages speculated this was to counterbalance Kelemvors dislike for the undead.
However, his service to Talos required him to expend his divine energy far too quickly, and he soon turned his allegiance to Azuth. He later made a secret alliance of convenience with Talos, using his servants undead servants to spread chaos and destruction he was not liked by either of his masters, because of this.
He was destroyed by the Simbul in , leaving behind his charred body, which was watched in Aglarond since. However, his cult was still alive and had access to divine spells within Mulmaster after the Second Sundering, indicating he may have been restored by Ao during the event.
His influence was felt in the , in the place that would later become the Battle of Bones, where a floating, flame-wreathed skull was seen during the last skirmish in the war, though he wouldnt become a divinity until later. Whether the symbol foretold his ascension or was adopted upon his embrace was not known.
The Simbul was said to have sacrificed herself to destroy the gods corpse in the Astral Plane.
There was a ring belonging to Empress Shoon V of the late 3 century DR known as the Dual Ring of Velsharoons Bindings. His relationship to the ring is unknown.Apart from the name, it is unknown how Velsharoon is linked to the ring and who or what is under bindings. It is possible the ring was associated with Velsharoon after Shoon Vs ownership of it.