10-foot poles and their variants were staple dungeon-delving tools for adventurers.
As befitting their name, 10-foot poles were often  long. While this made them useful, they were also quite cumbersome and bulky, especially in tight spaces such as dungeons.
The collapsible pole was a more complex and handy variant, which took the form of a  pole that could telescope out to 4, 6, 8, 10, or  long, then locked in place. A second pole could also be attached to the first, creating a single pole up to  long.
Wooden poles and staves were simple to make, and were commonly made on lathes by woodworking shops such as Gullaxes Stairs, Rails, Poles, Staves and Handles.
Poles could be used to jam doors open, pass items over gaps, extend the reach of magnets or other attachments, and do anything else a creative utilitarian could imagine. They were also used to tap or prod at suspected traps, a feature especially valued by adventurers that delved into dungeons. They made a good companion to more-complex thieves tools.
A solid 10-foot or longer pole could serve as a vaulting pole, and allowed very long or high jumps. A good pole could also serve as an improvised climbing surface, similar to a rope, or be used to construct a simple ladder.
Small boats such as rafts, skiffs, and barges could be propelled through shallow waters via pole, rather than by sail or oar.
Many useful tools were made from poles with a specialized attachments. These included pitchforks, brooms, shovels, hoes, rakes, gaffs, oars, and fishing rods.
Pole arms were essentially poles with deadly implements attached on the end to turn them into long-reaching weapons. Simplified further, a solid pole could be made into a quarterstaff, and served as a handy bludgeon.
* The pole of angling was a magical 10-foot pole that could transform into a fishing rod, and back again.
* The pole of collapsing was a simple magical item that could collapse to  or extend to 10 feet.
* Spider poles were a collection of short metal poles that could be assembled into a climbing frame or ladder.