Adriyanas Garter was an artifact, the ultimate fate of Adriyana Voudsarr after she faced Mystras Choice at the end of her career as the Magister.
The garter was a thigh-band of chased black leather, tooled with a repeated pattern of human hands grasping eyeballs. It had a black lace trim, and changed size to fit any living creature.
Per Elminster, Adriyana still spoke sometimes through the garter, imparting cryptic advice and warning of hostile magic.
The artifact provided protection to the highest level of most conventional magic, and also made its wearer immune to all manner of fire or heat damage. Were the wearer to be struck with a spell, it would raise complete protection against all spells for ten minutes, but it needed a hundred and forty minutes of rest between such protections.
However, the garter responded poorly to metal. Anyone who touched Adriyanas Garter with metal or tried to chop or cut it in any way would be thrown  away with dangerous force even magically animated weapons were pushed away and frozen for a minute.
Like all other artifacts, magic could only be dimly detected from the crown.
The artifact was created when Adriyana Voudsarr pleaded with Mystra to release her from the fate of the Magister in . Offered Mystras Choice, she became Adriyanas Garter as her decision. It was known to have been in the possession of Rildara Danthree as of  after that, it had last been seen used by the adventurer Yargildas of Altumbel in . He had used it in Impiltur to advance through a wizards spells to cut him down. He was presumed dead after his possessions were found on a bare tor north of Impiltur.
It was said anyone who died with Adriyanas Garter on would be reborn within four days per Elminster, this was false.
Per those versed in the subject, to destroy the artifact it would be necessary to convince Adriyana Voudsarr that she should seek a different fate through entreaty with a creature willing to serve Mystra for as long as that fate lasted. By then moving to an altar of Mystra and repeating the vow of service, both Adriyana and the creature would be faced with Mystras Choice.