Ale was a widely available beverage in the Realms.
Most taverns provided their own supplies from regional brewers. A few ales, however, due to their high quality or ease of transport, were famous and available in wider areas.
 Aftermath Abbey Ale  A variety of enchanted and expensive ale from the Yawning Portal.
 Avners Abyssal Ale  type of porter found in the city of Zelatar, on the Abyssal plane of Azzagrat.
 Baldurs Gate Pale  A brew from the Cutlass in Luskan.
 Baldurs Gate Red Ale  A red ale sold at Port Llast.
 Belbuck  A translucent green spearmint beer favored by halflings.
 Bitter-ale  A type of dark, thick, and strong foul-tasting duergar ale.
 Bitter Black  A dark stout from Arabel.
 Bitterroot beer  A smoky beer from Candlekeep and Daggerford made out of bitterroot plant.
 Black Bottom  A rough, smoky ale from Cormyr.
 Black grog ale A watered down libation from the Immurks Hold, Pirate Isles.
 Crystal Ale  A type of weak and refreshing ale from the alesmith of Ravens Bluff named Bowser in the late 14 century DR.
 Crystal Ale  A completely average in strength and quality ale from Ravens Bluff.
 Deep Ale  A frothy reinforced ale from Waterdeep, also known as fire ale.
 Darklake stout  A frothy dark ale made by the Duergar of Clan Muzgardt in Gracklstugh.
 Darndarr  A nutty-tasting ale from the Sword Coast.
 Deadmans Ale  A variety of ale from the alesmith of Ravens Bluff named Bowser in the late 14 century DR, named after a dead taste-tester, whose death was unrelated to the drink.
 Dragons Breath Beer  A strong and harsh brew from Sembia.
 Elder Root stout  A rich and flavorful stout from the Running Stag tavern in Berdusk.
 Elminsters Choice A heavy, bitter, dark, and cloudy beer from Immersea, favored by adventurers from around the Wyvernwater.
 Firesword  A wide variety of ales of similar recipes brewed across the Moonsea and often reinforced with honey.
 Frostkiss Ale  A sour aged variety of ale name after Auril the Frostmaiden.
 Golden Sands Brews  Light and effervescent lagers from Calimshan. There were three variations Golden Sands Basic, Golden Sands Gold and Golden Sands Orange.
 Greentart  A thin and fruity gnomish pale ale from Ravens Bluff.
 Highwater ale  A minty-flavored cream throat-burning ale from Highcastle.
 Iriaeboran North Brew  A dark amber brew with a bitter aftertaste from Iriaebor. The producers called it "the bite of the North winds".
 Luirens Best  A sweet black, thick stout brewed by the Smokardin clan on the coast of Luiren. It was said to be a nice combination with nut cheese.
 Mulhorandi dark  quality dark ale from Mulhorand.
 Night ale  A strong and dark ale from Voonlar. It was only available at the Swords Meet.
 Ogrefire Ale  A variety of enchanted and expensive ale from the Yawning Portal.
 Old Black Goblin  A black-colored, extremely valuable, and rare porter from Cormyr and Sembia.
 Old One Eye  A light brew with a spicy aftertaste from Llorbauth.
 Railurs Red  A "red", or amber ale from the coastal areas of Cormyr and Sembia.
 Regal Eagle Ale  A variety of enchanted and expensive ale from the Yawning Portal.
 Rockgrit  A variety of very strong gnomish pale ale distilled and brewed from potatoes.
 Rock Strained Ale  A type of strong and good-tasting ale from the alesmith of Ravens Bluff named Bowser in the late 14 century DR.
 Samman  A bitter brown ale brewed by the dwarves from Gracklstugh.
 Sarmsark  A cheap but strong-flavored ale from the Inner Sea.
 Shadowdark ale  A cloudy and frothy brown ale from Shadowdale.
 Silverymoon Ale  A hearty-bodied ale brewed by a small group of dwarves near Silverymoon.
 Sleeping Dragon dark  A nutty brew made of oats and barley and produced at the Sleeping Dragon in Rassalantar.
 Slow Spout  A thick and bitter ale produced by Duergar and available in Menzoberranzan.
 Spruce beer  A beer made from the spruce tree in Wheloon, Cormyr.
 Stint  A variety of gnomish pale ale strong with alcohol and strong in smell from Ravens Bluff.
 Suzale  Also known as Purple Dragon Ale. A fine nutty ale originally brewed for the royal household of Cormyr.
 Tanagyrs Stout  A heavy black stout with a rich malt flavor from Zhentil Keep.
 Wizards Quaff  A local brew freely available for tenants of the Whistling Wizard in Voonlar.
Wyrmwizz  A muddy ale brewed at Gyudds Distillery in Skullport. It was sold at The Black Tankard and The Worms Gullet.