Beholder grafts were pieces or parts of beholders that were grafted onto another creature.
These grafts were developed by bizarre cults who idolized beholders and wished to emulate them. However, beholders believed the practice to be abhorrent, and viewed it as a defilement of their "perfect" forms.
Beholder grafts did not radiate magic however they conferred protection against gas spores, who naturally avoided grafted individuals as they would a beholderkin.
Attaching beholder parts to another creature was a magical rite that was quite painful for the recipient. To implant the graft required familiarity with medicine and specialized knowledge of how to graft flesh If implanting or grafting a beholders eye, the process also required access to the spell(s) that corresponded to the eyes power. The grafts could not be scavenged or removed from a creature without being destroyed.
These grafts were created by beholder cultists for implantation into their own members in an effort to attain power. These cults tended to arise among humans, goblinoids, or subterranean creatures such as derro, kobolds, or troglodytes.
Crown of eyes
Six small eyes were implanted around the circumference of the recipients skull, conferring limited 360-degree vision.
Eye stalk
A beholders eye stalk was grafted onto the recipients head and connected to their nervous system. Any given stalk could only produce one kind of beholder eye ray, as determined at the time of grafting.
Gazing eye
One of the recipients eyes was replaced with a beholders eye that had the innate power to use a few different beholder gaze attacks (cause fear, charm person, flesh to stone, or sleep).
Plated skin
Bony plates akin to those of a beholders were grafted over the recipients vulnerable areas to provide permanent armor.
Replacement eye
One of the recipients eyes was replaced with a beholders eye that could produce one kind of beholder eye ray, as determined at the time of grafting.
Third eye
An eye was implanted into the middle of the recipients forehead that acted as a miniaturized version of a beholders central eye, although it could only be activated three times each day.
* Beldar Roaringhorn, a Waterdhavian nobleman and member of a group called Amalgamation during .
* Golskyn, the leader of Amalgamation during 1370 DR.