The Blackstaff was the name for a series of powerful magical staves, created and used by Khelben "Blackstaff" Arunsun and/or his successor.
Khelbens Blackstaff
It was believed that Khelben Arunsun, who carried the first Blackstaff title, selected a new Blackstaff every time he left Blackstaff Tower. However, it always appeared as a long wooden staff. It was longer than an average human was tall, roughly seven feet from base to tip.  A ring of bulbs circled the staff at about eye level, and the staff was topped by a curved claw shape. The entire staff was pure black in color. 
Samarks Staff
Samark Dhanzscul, the sixth Blackstaff, carried a staff known as the Duskstaff, which was a twisted metal staff with a crystal on top that flashed various colors. It was unknown whether this was an iteration of a Blackstaff or a different staff. The Duskstaff could only be moved by the current Blackstaff or by someone wielding Ncrals Ring.
Vajras Blackstaff
Vajra Safahr, the seventh Blackstaff, carried a silver-shod Blackstaff. The Blackstaff she carried when proclaiming her status as the new Blackstaff was the "true blackstaff", a large rune-inscribed duskwood staff with silver veins. The whole staff was blackened by use. Atop the staff was a large axe head in the shape of snarling wolf head, which had glowing green eyes.
The Blackstaff had all the powers of a staff of power. 
The staff also had a permanent blackstaff (spell) upon it that could&hellip
* &hellipgrant an enhancement when used in melee combat, 
* &hellipdispel magic with a touch,  
* &hellipcause a spellcaster to loose a spell or expend a bit of their magical power, and
* &hellipchannel various mind-affecting spells. 
A Blackstaffs Heir needed to touch the Blackstaff in order to be centered in his or her new powers. Only a Blackstaff or the Blackstaffs Heir could safely carry and wield a Blackstaff. As long as a Blackstaffs Heir was touching the Blackstaff, the powers of the actual Blackstaff (person) could be channeled through the staff.