Cheese was a form of preserved milk, derived from the solid portions of curdled milk being separated from the liquid (whey), that was prepared in a variety of ways. The color, flavor, marbling, and texture of cheese all varied depending upon how it was prepared. It was a product widely available in Faerûn.
Cheese was most often found in  circular or elliptic wheels, or in rectangular loaves, which could then be divided further in wedges, or hunks. Some cheeses could also be found in large  wheys, for example when ordered in bulk from Auroras Whole Realms Catalogue.
In Scornubel, cheese was often sold in chunks known as a "fist".
thumb|A majestic wheel of cheese in near-mint condition.|340x340px
Aerdruth A variety of crumbly cheese from Tethyr named after the Aerdruth family that created the recipe long before the 14 century DR.
Amarathas A very good sharp marbled green cheese made at Amarathas Teahouse in the Dalelands.
Arabellan cheddar Once described as "the most popular cheddar cheese of the Sea of Fallen Stars". It was a sturdy, orange cheese that traveled extremely well.
Askata A strongly flavored cheese from Impiltur. It was yellow and crumbled easily.
Beregost Blue A type of cheese, streaked with blue, produced in the town of Beregost.
Bluelick A type of sharp cheese.
Calmarr A variety of Turmishite soft and crumbly cheese flavored with chives and other herbs, also known as ornsoelaun.
Caribou cheese A variety of cheese from the Great Glacier made from sour and fatty caribou milk.
Chessentan Lotus Cheese Popular in Chessenta and in the empires on the southeastern side of the Sea of Fallen Stars for a very long time, it was normally mixed with lotus flower petals, although there were other Chessentan cheeses that were mixed with less exotic petals, such as rose or honeysuckle.
Churlgo Cheese Several types of halfling-made cheese from Daggerfords farmalnds – an acquired taste among many.
Corwellian sharp A type of sharp cheese from Caer Corwell in the Moonshae Isles.
Cream cheese a type of soft, spreadable dairy product, similar to yak butter but less delicate and more plainly-tasting.
Dale cheese A variety of hard cheese filleld with diced olives from the Great Dale.
Damarite Red Also known as Bloodcheese, it came from the lands of the Bloodstone. It was made from goats milk, which imparted a sharp, hearty, pungent tang.
Death Cheese Made from the milk of the deadly catoblepas. It was produced in Cormyr and Sembia by farmers who hired adventurers to herd and milk the catoblepas.
Dunbradar cheese A sharply-flavored goats cheese with nuts.
Durinbold cheese A type of creamy and nutty sheeps milk cheese found in the Western Heartlands.
Elturian Grey Reminiscent of blue cheese, but had black veins. It was also known as stonework or dwarfcheese, and had a distinctly pungent flavor.
Farmers cheese Also known as pot cheese or cottage cheese, it was mostly consumed locally as it did not travel well.
Goats milk cheese A common variety of floral and hay flavored cheese made from goats milk.
Goblin cheese A foul-smelling crumbly blue-cheese-like substance.
Green Calishite Made by the Calishites, who mixed curry into their cheeses to enhance the flavor. The potent cheese had an aquamarine hue due to the curry, and was extremely spicy.
Hammaree A variety of crumbly cheese from Tethyr named after the Hammaree family that created the recipe long before the 14 century DR.
Hearthfire amber-hued, sharp, and crumbly cheese from Narfell made using milk from korontaun, a local species of shaggy sheep.
Highmoon Smokerind A high-quality pungent-smelling golden-hued cheese.
Luiren spring cheese Also known as Halflings Cheese, or mind cheese, it was pungently aromatic and soft. Although not very tasty to humans, it had a profound effect on halflings, who reacted to it as if it were a strong wine or narcotic. In some instances, halflings could become addicted to it as they would to a mind-affecting drug.
Luthland cheese Also known as sharpsair, a variety of strong white cheese with a strong spicy flavor reminiscent of mustard and horseradish from Luthbaern.
Mist cheese Produced in Loudwater Vale, it was a rich, soft white cheese that became translucent when sliced thinly. It was also known as Ethereal Cheese by the elves.
Nut cheeses Most prevalent in Silverymoon, Mirabar, Sundabar, and the other cities of the Savage Frontier, they were a traditional way to preserve un-shelled nuts (such as hickory nuts, walnuts, and chestnuts).
Nutmeg cheese A type of cheese flavored with nutmeg from Ravens Bluff.
Obaleth a sharp and strong-flavored cheese from the hamlet of Sevenecho in the Vast.
Pepper cheese A tangy, supple cheese created by mixing southern spices with a mixture of goat and cow cheese. It was easily identified by the rind, which was leathery and dotted with peppercorns.
Redruck Type of one of the sharpest cheeses.
Roaroke A variety of expensive and rare cheese popular in the Border Kingdoms.
Sarm Orange cheese flavored with wine, similar in flavor to sharp red cheddar.
Shantan Slice A sharp red cheese from the Grand Duchy of Shantal.
Sharpcrumble cheese A type of crumbly white cheese bade by Fulbar Hardcheeses family in Daggerford.
Sjorl A heavy smoky cheese from Rashemen.
Turmish black A variety of cheese made in Turmish and the Vilhon Reach.
Turmish brick A cheese mixed with the heavy red wine that was common among the Turmish. It was a sweet, crumbly, burgundy cheese, wrapped in red wax, and had an easily identifiable, rectangular shape.
Ulgarthan cheese sharp cheese from the Utter East with notable purple marbling.
Vilhon blanc Made with a lighter wine than Turmish Brick, it was a lighter cheese with a sweet, delicate flavor. The cheese was typically consumed locally, and was rarely found beyond the Sea of Fallen Stars or Sembia.
Vilksmaarg A salty, pungent, herbal goat cheese, produced in Vilkstead, capital of Utheraal. It was most popular in Sword Coast taverns.
WaterdhavianAlso called eyed cheese, holed cheese, or arrow-shot, it was popular and common in Waterdeep.
Whitesides A variety of cheese produced in the ancient realms of Athalantar.
Yak butter A mild and delicate cream cheese made from yak milk. At one time, it could be found from the Spine of the World to the Hordelands.