Churlgo Cheese was an infamously bad to some, and delectably exquisite to others, cow-milk cheese crafted in the Eastern Farmlands, just outside of Daggerford by the Churlgo halfling family. The whole enterprise was led by Millie Churlgo circa 1372 DR.
The Churlgo Cheeses could be easily identified by the familys "CC" seal on the product. The three types of cheese produced by the Churlgos were an acquired taste, to put it mildly. The flavors were as follows unpalatable saltiness and crumbly sweet and runny with the consistency of snail slime and rubbery and smelling like an old sweaty sock. The Churlgo familys motto was the stinkier the cheese, the better.
thumb|A vat of melted Churlgo Cheese.
The Churlgo Cheese was created by Millie Churlgos great great grandfather – Garrith Churlgo, when he decided to switch from grain farming to raising dairy cows. He was the one who developed the very first secret Churlgo Cheese recipe and determined to use only the best ingredients.
The Churlgo family sold their cheeses throughout the Sword Coast via a distributor in Gillians Hill, Sejellus Krimp. In 1372 DR, the cheese quality started to slip because of the regular bandit raids on the cheese shipments, and big financial losses led to cheaper ingredients and worse cheese. The raids were organized by Yentai of the Iron Throne, who had pursued the Churlgos from the Dalelands to Daggerford in an extortion scheme. Yentai was trying to emulate the halfling familys cheese and eventually forced the family to leave the Dalelands. Before they left, Millie Churlgo left an altered cheese recipe for Yentai to find. The extortionist cooked up a batch of Churlgo Cheese and served it to the Iron Throne dignitaries without tasting it first. The scandal that ensued came to be known as the "Suzail Cheese Incident." 
Eventually, Yentai declared an ultimatum to the family, give up the recipes and leave the business for good, or be eliminated. The conflict was eventually resolved with the aid of the Hero of Daggerford, who stopped the extortion and returned the high-quality fanciful stinky cheese on the market.