The Cloak of One Plume was a legendary artifact of pluma magic from the continent of Maztica.
The Cloak of One Plume appeared to have been crafted out of a single giant feather of a multitude of colors.
When worn, this powerful enchanted cape affected all surrounding creatures, making the wearer appear highly charismatic and an inspiring leader. The effects of the cape were somewhat similar to the effects of the enthrall spell. All those around the bearer of the Cloak of One Plume bravely followed them into battle, inspired by its magic. However, the Cloak of One Plume could only bestow this inspiring magic onto inhabitants of the True World who were born on the continent of Maztica. The wearer of the cape was also given the ability to fly once per day. Additionally, the wearer was granted magical resistance to fire, both natural and supernatural. The Cloak of One Plume was also big enough to cover one additional humanoid when faced with deadly fires.
When The Silent Counselor of the Gods, Qotal, departed Maztica, he left a prophecy of his eventual return. The Cloak of One Plume would be worn by the Chosen Daughter of Qotal, guiding his return to the True World. The Chosen Daughter wore the Cloak of One Plume into the calamity known as the Night of Wailing.
During the explosion of Mount Zatal on the Night of Wailing, the Cloak of One Plume was believed to have been incinerated. It was not true. The artifact was rescued by a group of priests of Azul who stashed it away within a cave on the slopes of Mount Zatal. The deity Azul summoned a rain dragon servant to guard the Cloak of One Plume. The cleric who hid the cape died soon after, but the fellow clergy members continued to pay tributes to the guardian, ignorant of what was being guarded.
In the , rumors of the Cloak of One Plume surviving the fires of Zatal reached Governor-General Cordell of Helmsport. He ordered a band of adventurers to retrieve the artifact under the guise of benevolent action, that is, securing items from monsters who flooded the ruined city of Nexal and neer-do-wells who arrived from Faerûn. Cordell offered adventurers gold, freedom, land, and title in New Amn.
The cloak was recovered with help from Chioptl the tabaxi. However, it remained unclear who of the three men if any, ended up claiming the Cloak of One Plume.