Blackstaff TowerYûlashShadowtop Borough, Netheril
The Crown of Horns was an evil, intelligent artifact of great power. While its origins were murky, the Crown was believed to have been forged either in ancient Netheril, or by Myrkul, the former god of Death.
In its original form this crown was a helmet made of electrum and fully covered with small horns, and a row of black gems, the center one of which was black diamond.
After its destruction and subsequent reformation, the Crown of Horns appeared as a silver circlet with a black diamond set on the brow and four bone horns mounted around its edge.
It is unknown what powers the artifact had before it was possessed by Myrkul other than its sentience and its capability to interfere with the minds of its wearers. After its possession however, the Crown imbued the wearer with several considerable necromantic powers. They were granted an aura of undeath similar to those that surrounded liches, became immune to necromantic spells and all manner of death magic.
Following the gods destruction, the vestiges of Myrkul could strongly influence the actions of whomever wore the Crown of Horns, making suggestions within their consciousness, possessing them outright, and even altering their moral and ethical outlook to more closely resemble his own. No individual could remove their crown unless Myrkuls essence wished for his artifact to find a new host.
Over time, anyone wearing the crown became increasingly paranoid, specifically about their possession of the Crown itself. Eventually, they succumbed to the call of madness and undeath, and became a lich themself.
Additional powers the Crown possessed or granted to its wearer, included
* The power to command undead.
* A fear aura similar to that possessed by liches.
* An aura that compelled anyone within a  radius to claim the Crown for themself.
* The ability to teleport without error once every tenday.
* Emit the unique ray of undeath, which slew creatures where they stood and raised them as lesser shadowrath.
* Myrkuls Hand, which surrounded the wearers hands with black flames their touch engulfed creatures in dark conflagration, possibly transforming them into greater shadowraths.
The origins regarding the Crown of Horns were not entirely clear. Some scholars believed it was created by the God of Death, Myrkul himself,
It was said that in , the Crown exploded while being worked on by Trebbe, destroying an entire block of the enclave. The Crown itself wasnt destroyed, but it was lost.
In , the Crown was seen again, this time in the hands of another archwizard, Requiar. Requiar used it to slay 30 other archwizards and conquer Shadowtop Borough. The artifact drove Requiar mad though and he was rendered incapable. After the insensate arcanist was overthrown, his killers searched for the Crown but despite powerful divinations, a thorough search of the city, and many parties of adventurers scouring the Eastern Forest over the next 150 years, they failed to find it.
In , the Crown was finally rediscovered by the archwizard Shadelorn. Shadelorn was working on a project to succeed where Ioulaum had failed in creating an improved mythallar. In , another archwizard, Shenandra, was working on countering the lifedrain magic of the phaerimm at the same time. As misfortune would have it, the two successfully completed their projects at precisely the same time on Shadowtop Borough. The Crown, wanting revenge on the city for its previous defeat, had been imperceptibly corrupting Shadelorns work and when he activated his new mythallar, it drained all magic and memorized spells from everything and everyone within a 20-mile radius. The enclave fell, its inhabitants died, the threat from the phaerimm persisted and the only thing to survive intact was the Crown.
At one point, the Crown was in the possession of the Netherese lich Aumvor the Undying, who wished to use the crown to make Laeral Silverhand his bride by leaving it for her adventuring band, The Nine, to find. Laeral donned the crown in the , but Aumvors plot failed when the Crowns powers conflicted with Laeral Silverhands spellfire power and drove her into madness.
Eventually, Khelben was forced to beseech his goddess Mystra for aid, and challenged Laeral to a terrible spell duel in the High Forest. In the , the Crown was sundered by her future consort, the archmage Khelben "Blackstaff" Arunsun, who locked its pieces away within the heavily protected walls of his tower, Blackstaff Tower. However, when Myrkul died at Midnights hand during the Time of Troubles that same year, the god tore the broken shards of the Crown from Blackstaff Tower, reforged it into a new shape, and infused it with the remains of his sentience before teleporting away.
Myrkul, through the Crown, continued to spread evil through the Realms, tormenting members of the Church of Cyric as well as hapless innocents, avoiding allies of Khelben and temples of Mystra.
As of the , the Crown of Horns was in the possession of a yuan-ti pureblood Horned Harbinger named Nhyris DHothek. He had eventually disappeared from his haunts in Skullport after the Crown transformed him into a lich-like being. 
There remained conflicting accounts regarding the Crowns whereabouts in the decades that followed. It was said by some that Nhyris lost the Crown of Horns, but retained the horrific transformations it had inflicted upon his form.
Following the fall of Netheril, a group of surviving arcanists fashioned the helmet The Black Hands of Shelgoth out of the remains of the lich Shelgoth. Later historians speculated that this was an attempt to create an item similar to the Crown of Horns.
The ray of undeath let loose by the Crown was said to resemble "spell of Undeath", as described by the self-proclaimed Harper King Rundorl Moonsklan.
It was rumored that the Crown of Horns could be destroyed by being placed upon the brow of Kelemvor, who succeeded Myrkuls replacement as the God of Dead, or by being submerged in the blood of the divine avatar of Garqos the Reaver.
* Nhyris DHothek, a yuan-ti pureblood from Skullport who bore the Crown for over a year.