Dhonass Shroud was an artifact known within the ancient Imaskar Empire. It was one of the False Imaskarcana.In its initial appearance, it was an Imaskarcana it is first referred to as a False Imaskarcana on The Grand History of the Realms, retconning it as no longer an Imaskarcana.
An alliance of Imaskari archwizards known as the Cabal of Madness created Dhonass Shroud and a number of other masks known as the Faces of Madness, each themed around a school of magic, over decades after striking a bargain with horrors from beyond their world. Each of those major artifacts were created with a curse that only the creator knew how to avoid. Before they were able to implement their plans, however, the Mulan rebelled with the aid of their gods, ultimately destroying Imaskar as a nation. In the resulting tumult, the masks were scattered.
After the empires fall, in , the surviving artificer Kujawa carried Dhonass Shroud and claimed the Dragon Throne in the Khati city of Thakos, the former capital of Upper Imaskar. With that, he declared himself Emperor and founded a new realm, Anok-Imaskar.
Dhonass Shroud was a mask made of silver plates, with large colored eyeglasses, a wire mesh covering the mouth, and a gray cloth covering the back of the head.
It increased greatly the power of all illusion magic the wearer could cast, and provided an extreme resistance against it. It also granted the ability to cast mirror image at least thrice a day, more if their force of personality was strong enough. The wearer of the mask was continuously protected by a displacement effect. Three times a day, the wearer could cast their choice of persistent image, nightmare, veil, hallucinatory terrain, or weird.
However, every day it had a chance in five of haunting the wearer with horrid nightmares forever. Ironically, wearing the mask helped fight off those nightmares otherwise, only a remove curse, limited wish, or stronger spell cast with at least as much power as the masks own could break this enchantment.