The Diamond Staff of Chomylla (or, occasionally, the Diamond Scepter of Chomylla) was one of the legendary lorestaves of Uvaeren, created to unlock the encrypted secrets of the ancient elven realm of Uvaeren.
Measuring nearly  in length, the staffs thickness gradually tapered toward its base. As befitting its name, the Diamond Staff was crafted from a single diamond that had been magically elongated. Both the top and bottom of the staff were capped with six triangular, steeply tapering facets that converged to form pointed tips. The staff itself had six facets that ran along its full length, each of which was inscribed with nigh-invisible runes written in a forgotten elvish tongue. Around , the staff was described as being tipped with a transparent globe.
Although it was as light as a staff made from pine, the Diamond Staff was as durable as one made from adamantine. It was immune to item-destroying spells such as shatter.
The Diamond Staff emitted a strong aura of conjuration, divination, and illusion magic.
The main function of the Diamond Staff was to serve as a key to unlock the libraries and lore of Uvaeren. The Uvaeranni were a secretive people who encrypted and hid many of their secrets in countless relics and artifacts. When in proximity to such an encrypted secret, the Diamond Staff would emit a faint tingling sound audible only to its bearer, thus helping identify potential hidden lore.
Furthermore, the staff allowed its wearer to cast identify, legend lore, and tongues three times per day for each spell. Anyone in physical contact with the Diamond Staff could silently cast detect magic at will.
Should the staffs bearer choose to use it for the somewhat less dignified purpose of melee combat, it functioned as a +3 quarterstaff.
Finally, the Diamond Staff could be used to flood a targets mind with an overload of information, disabling them entirely. This effect was described as similar to the spell maze, or according to some sages, identical. Triggering this effect required the staff to make physical contact with the target.
The staff was created by Chomylla several centuries prior to the destruction of the elven realm of Uvaeren by a falling star Chomylla was among the few Uvaeranni to survive the catastrophe, as she was away visiting the court of Jhyrennstar on behalf of Mnuvae, the last coronal of Uvaeren. Before returning to her ruined homeland to determine what could be salvaged from its libraries, she left the Diamond Staff in the care of the Fourth Coronal of Jhyrennstar.The name of the Fourth Coronal of Jhyrennstar has not been identified in any source. Chomylla was never heard from again, and the Diamond Staff mysteriously disappeared from Jhyrennstar soon thereafter.
Around the time of the Weeping War (&ndash), an orc of the Army of Darkness was said to have come into possession of the Diamond Staff. Although the NVaelahr of Cormanthor received intelligence reports indicating the orc could be found in the woods north of Oloriil, the staff was never recovered
The staffs whereabouts remained shrouded in mystery for several centuries until the , when the green dragon Dretchroyaster uncovered it in the Lost Trench
Some years later, in the , the Diamond Staff of Chomylla drew the interest of the adventuring troupe known as the Company of the Sunlit Sea. They tracked the staff to an abandoned temple of Bhaal in the forest of Cormanthor, where they were horrified to discover the lair of Dretchroyaster, now a dracolich, within. The company chose to brave the danger regardless, but were quickly forced to retreat when their wizard Imani was badly burned by a trap.
Eight years later, in the , Imani returned to the Dalelands to issue an open call for dozens of adventurers to finally recover the Diamond Staff. The Turmishan wizard had divined that Dretchroyaster and the Cult of the Dragon were attempting to overload the staff with eldritch energy in an attempt to access the lost lore of Uvaeren. Imani feared what would happen if these secrets should fall into evil hands, but also wanted to examine the lore of Uvaeren for himself.
With the Diamond Staff now in his possession, Imani soon organized an expedition to unlock a Uvaeranni library-vault, the Vault of Song, once again calling on the aid of adventurers. Barcere, having heard rumors that the Diamond Staff had been recovered, wanted to use it to access Uvaeranni lore for his masters.
* Chomylla, the staffs creator.
* The Fourth Coronal of Jhyrennstar, who Chomylla entrusted with the Diamond Staff shortly before her disappearance.
* Dretchroyaster, a green dragon turned dracolich who wanted to use the Diamond Staff to absorb the lost power of Uvaeren.
* Imani, a wizard with an interest in Uvaeranni lore.
* Barcere, another wizard with an interest in Uvaeranni lore.