Uruth Ukrypt
The Ettin Axe of Uruth was a sentient enchanted orc double axe that served as an infamous symbol of orc military power.
The axe was notable for each of its two axe-heads having a distinct personality&mdashknown as Ur and Krypt&mdashboth of which loathed and constantly denigrated the other. Their mutual hatred was a consequence of a quirk inherent in the design of certain evil sentient items that drove them to manipulate their wielders into destroying or abandoning other sentient objects. As they were conjoined, this property instead manifested in the two heads verbally sparring and bickering with each other.These two heads were likely the source of the items name an ettin is a two-headed giant.
The cold and more lawful head was known as Ur. It was wiser and more charismatic than Krypt, and was better able to intuit the intentions of others. It also had some understanding of spellcraft.
The more fiery and chaotic head was Krypt. It was a more proficient liar and bully than Ur. While less wise and less of a charmer than Ur, it was no less intelligent.
Each axe-head was potently enchanted, and allowed the wielder to command it to shed light with a luminance similar to a torch. In addition, Ur had the ability to wrap itself in an icy burst, while Krypt had the same ability except with fire.
On the very rare occasions when the two heads could agree on anything, the strength of the items collective ego became much stronger.
The axe was created by an evil wizard known as Lethchauntos the Black sometime between  and  as a gift for Uruth, the first king of the orc realm of Uruth Ukrypt. Uruth wielded the axe during the Orcfastings War of 936 DR, in which he was slain at the Battle of the Westwood. After this, the weapon was claimed by War Lord Gharl of Waterdeep (then called Nimoars Hold), but it was soon mostly forgotten and left deep in some vault within the city.
Centuries later, the axe disappeared during the Siege of Waterdeep by the Black Horde in the . It was presumably stolen by orc infiltrators, but it was believed that they must have failed to smuggle it out of the city as divination magics indicated that the weapon was still hidden somewhere within Waterdeep following the siege. As of the mid-to-late 14 century DR, none knew what had become of the axe.
* Uruth, first king of Uruth Ukrypt in the early-to-mid 10 century DR.
* War Lord Gharl of Nimoars Hold.