The Evise Jhontil was an artifact of the clergy of Set. In the , it was moved to Lliiress, where it was used by the blue dragon Gerinvioch
to trap the entire population in a bubble where casting spells would kill its users.
The Evise Jhontil was shaped like a diamond, standing nearly four feet long and two wide. Its shape was octagonal. While operating in Lliiress, it spun continuously, and blinking orange lights danced around it, faster the more magic that was used in its vicinity.
Anyone who attuned themselves to the Evise Jhontil by touching it would find that any spell subject to permanency would be made permanent, at grievous cost to their lifeforce. The caster was permanently bonded to his spells as well, making it impossible for them to be dispelled, including antimagic field, mordenkainens disjunction or even wish. On the casters death, the spell would cease.
When Gerinvioch employed the device in Lliiress in , the dragon performed some ritual beforehand. The dragon was also able to employ the artifact right before then to create a barrier extending about a mile from the center of town, which prevented egress from the vicinity of the artifact
At the same time, it hid the area from just about all known means of discovery, including sight, hearing, and even most magic.
The effect of the artifact was slightly different on those within the barrier, subjecting anyone who employed a spell in its vicinity to a draining of their lifeforce that continued to power the spell repeatedly until it induced their deaths.
The effect somehow extended to most magic items, causing their destruction soon after activation. Even instant spells such as teleport instead forever blinked the caster between their location and their source every few moments.
The artifact was said to be created by Set as an aid to his faithful in order to overthrow the ancient Imaskari While the text in Dragon reads Ilmakari, there is no Ilmakari civilization. Given that the Mulhorandi, where Sets pantheon is worshipped, were once enslaved by the Imaskari, and that the Mulhorandi pantheon actively destroyed them, this article proceeds under the assumption that Ilmakari was a spelling error and that the intended word is Imaskari. civilization.
In , Aniolon Gruanthe sent several of his men to a ruin which contained a temple of Set. Less than a tenday later, they returned with the artifact they related that the location, despite being uninhabited for about a half millenium, since the mid-to-late 5 century DR, had enough traps to kill a half dozen of them, while an efreeti killed four more while they returned. Once given the artifact, the dragon created a barrier that would hide the town from anyone permanently.
However, the dragons barrier also made it impossible to leave the area enveloped by the barrier
while allowing entrance,
and caused anyone who cast a spell inside the barrier to die as their lifeforce was constantly stolen to power the spells.
A few people entered the location every so often, joining the permanent population, but as of , no one had left.
On that year, a mage from Estagund, Kinase Bronihim, sought out Gerinvioch for the Evise Jhontil. The dragon directed him towards Lliiress,
Gerinvioch demanded the Evise Jhontil of Aniolon Gruanthe in exchange for his protection in .
In , the reputation of the Evise Jhontil was such that Kinase Bronihim sought the dragon for it.
*Gerinvioch