The Fanged Mirrors of Yehcir-Eya were a set of thirty-three magical artifacts capable of manifesting a vicious reflection of whoever gazed upon them.
thumb|The Fanged Mirrors often reflected poorly on their owners.
The Fanged Mirrors were small, circular pieces of silvered glass framed by golden, sweeping fangs.
The primary function of the Fanged Mirrors was to render physical the soul of its victim. Without fail, this manifested soul would then aggressively attempt to murder its owner. Although historically most victims of the Fanged Mirrors were their actual owners, the mirrors could also be used as potent weapons.
On an unknown world, the Great Matriarch of the Sea of Black Sand, Yehcir-Eya, was reaching the end of her lifespan. Fearing for the stability of her nation, which was beset on all sides by rivals that wished to claim her lands, the Great Matriarch sought to ally herself with one of these Lesser Matriarchs, yet she did not know who to trust. She asked her oracles to devise a way to test the hearts of her potential allies, and they urged her to travel to the very edge of the Sea of Black Sand to find what she sought. After a long journey on foot, Yehcir-Eya discovered a courtyard-sized plate of silvered glass embedded in the desert floor. Her oracles instructed her to cut the glass plate into thirty-three smaller mirrors, which were then sent to each of the Lesser Matriarchs as a gift.
As it happened, every Lesser Matriarch who received a Fanged Mirror fell dead, with stories circulating about them being murdered by crawling spectral forms. Yehcir-Eyas murderous gift was considered a grave provocation, and the surrounding realms all invaded her nation and razed it to the ground. The Fanged Mirrors were scattered and forgotten.
One Fanged Mirror was eventually found by the rogue modron Nordom in Sigil.
Exactly why the souls manifested by the Fanged Mirrors were so murderous was unclear. It was certainly possible that the plate of glass Yehcir-Eya discovered simply happened to be evil in and of itself. Another possibility was that the Lesser Matriarchs who died all had souls that were consumed by greed and dreams of conquest.
* Nordom, a rogue modron