Fiendish grafts were body parts of fiends that were attached to the bodies of other corporeal creatures or people.
These grafts were inherently malevolent, and having one would twist a persons the personality as well as their appearance. Recipients of such grafts found themselves either tempted toward committing evil acts or being driven mad if such urges conflicted with their goodly nature.
Only fiends possessed the knowledge of how to create and attach such grafts,&mdashand sibriexes&mdashwho could conjure grafts from Abyssal chaos and instantly meld one onto a willing recipient or even force one onto a helpless victim.
There were also said to exist magical devices that a creature could fit inside and which would remove and replace limbs in exceedingly painful&mdashand potentially fatal&mdashprocedures.
Clawed arm
A muscled and sinewy arm with a large, clawed hand.
Flexible arm
A long, strong, and tentacle-like arm that ended in a clawed hand with three fingers.
Grappling tentacle
A long, strong, and tentacle-like arm that ended in a barbed hook ideal for grabbing onto enemies.
Long arm
A thin and wiry arm that was obviously too long for the recipient and thus extended their reach.
Charming eye
A goatlike, golden eye that allowed the recipient to see perfectly in even magical darkness and to charm other creatures.
Fearsome eye
A bright red eye with a black iris that allowed the recipient to see invisibility and to paralyze other creatures with fear.
Fiendish ear
A fan-shaped ear (looking like spikes connected by membranous skin) that granted the recipient keen hearing, except on rare occasions when all they heard was the chaos of Pandemonium.
Fiendish jaw
A heavy, tusked jawbone covered in scaled skin and full of sharp, crooked teeth. The recipient of this graft could use the heavy tusks to gore their enemies.
Fast leg
A long and agile leg that made the recipient faster.
Springing leg
An extremely long leg with a pronounced bend at the knee (which could be bent either forwards or backwards) that allowed the recipient to jump further and higher. The leg was awkward enough that the recipient had difficulty walking.
Strong leg
A large and muscular leg that enhanced the recipients endurance.
Trampling leg
A short, thick, elephantlike leg that could be used to stomp on enemies.
Sting tail
A large, scorpionlike tail that ended in a poisonous stinger that could be used to attack foes.
Whip tail
A long, whiplike tail that seemed to have a mind of its own and could lash out at the recipients enemies. Injuries from the tail burned with paralyzing pain.
Feathered wings
Large, birdlike wings tipped with claws&mdashsimilar to those of an erinyes or vrock&mdashenabled the recipient to fly.
Membranous wing
Batlike wings&mdashsimilar to those of a pit fiend or succubus&mdashenabled the recipient to fly.
Fiendish skin
Grafts of thick skin that provided permanent natural armor.
* Rauthan Zarass, a Zhentarim slaver and underling of Manshoon who had a clawed arm. He was slain by Storm Silverhand.
* Warduke, an infamous evil adventurer from Oerth, who possessed a glowing fearsome eye.