The Flame Blade was a holy artifact of of the Sisterhood of Silver Fire, a sect of worshipers of Mystra that dated back to the .
The Flame Blade resembled a handheld cross engulfed in the blue and silver fire of the goddess of magic. The blades hilt was intricately shaped to resemble a blue and white star, the symbol of Mystra, surrounded in delicate metallic flames pf red tint.
This magical blade was only usable by clerics, ignoring any disadvantages the priestly wielders might have had from a lack of training with swords.
When inert, the Flame Blade was effectively a short sword that was significantly more deadly than its counterparts. In addition to its damage, it was ensorcelled with +3 enchantment. Once the command word was uttered, the Flame Blade became a physical manifestation of the spell of the same name. The Mystran sword became engulfed in the goddesss blue and silver flames.
In the , during the Cult of the Dragons occupation of the ruins of Myth Drannor, the holy sites of Mystra were desecrated and the citys mythal corrupted. The Lady of Mystery sent out dreams and visions to her followers and the members of the Sisterhood of Silver Fire, asking for their help. Some brave devotees traveled to the ruined elven city to aid their deity. Vile creatures and cultists slew many. One, sadly unnamed, sister of the Silver Fire reached the House of Gems on the quest from her goddess. There, she was murdered, her body was pinned to the ancient dwarven stronghold wall with the Flame Blade, the very relic she carried. Her body was turned into an evil, desecrated place of worship. Eventually, the corruption attracted a spawn pool of the pool of radiance and, in turn, monstrous arraccats. The creatures made the evil pool their lair, eventually covering the altar and clogging the old dwarven water pumps with webs and similar beastly secretions.
Subsequently, her body was discovered by the Veiled Ones who were exploring the ruins. Once the monsters were slain, they pulled the silver blade out of the wall, giving peace to the sister of Silver Fire. Mystra bathed the body of her devotee in her holy fire, taking her soul into the afterlife.