The Flame of the North was an enchanted greatsword that belonged to High King Arthangh of Emberden and was entombed with him in Undermountain.
What Emberden was and where it lay, and who Arthangh was and why he fell were not known—all trace was lost to history. Only the Flame of the North and Arthanghs tomb lay within the first level of Undermountain by the 1360s DR, when it was guarded by a crawling claw. The tomb bore the following inscription written in Thorass
The unsheathed sword would be found lying atop the tomb. When someone approached, a magic mouth announced
The blade was made from steel and gleamed as bright as a mirror, as if freshly polished.
The Flame of the North was a +2 greatsword, but increased to +4 when used against chaotic evil creatures.
Only a chaotic good being could safely and effectively wield the Flame of the North. If anyone else so much as touched it, it would spit blue fire that shocked them it was safe thereafter, but was deteriorated to a −3 weapon. In the hands of a chaotic good wielder, the blade burst into blue-white flames, shedding light like faerie fire but inflicting hindrance to the bearer. These were flames were illusory, gave no heat, and didnt ignite fires, and they could not be dimmed  by any means except breaking the blade or putting it down.
In addition, the Flame of the North detected chaotic evil creatures without fail. When the drawn blade, in the hands of a chaotic good creature, was brought within  of a chaotic evil creature, the blade would whisper "Strike! Strike! Strike!" in the wielders mind, regardless of any magical attempts to conceal the creatures alignment or identity. However, the sword itself had no intelligence or compulsive powers of its own.
When drawn, the blade had a 10% chance to reflect any spell directed at the wielder back upon the caster, whether they wanted it to not. Moreover, it would absorb all magic missiles and electrical attacks directed at the wielder without ill-effect, the magical energy recharge the swords own powers.
The blade was everbright, preventing rust, tarnish, staining, or damage from blood, acid, fire, and so on.