The Helm of Helm was a holy text of the church of Helm that took the unusual form of a heavy metallic war-helm instead of an actual book.
This divine relic was appeared as a simple visored metallic helmet without heraldry, mantling or decorations. Its only notable quality was the word Surgar engraved in Common on the inside of the visor.
150px
The Helm was impervious to rust. All its other magical properties were dormant until a creature in contact with it uttered the word Surgar, at which point the visor would start glowing with a faint silver radiance.
As of the , the Helm emitted a burnt smell whenever it was within approximately  of any magical fire.
Any creature of Chaotic alignment which touched or wore the helmet suffered painful burns, as if under the effects of a heat metal spell.
The Helm had different effects on creatures of Lawful alignment which wore it, depending of whether they worshiped Helm or not.
Creatures that didnt worshiped the deity would hear a very faint voice while wearing the item. If those creatures were of Lawful Neutral alignment, they would hear the name of the deity echoing grandly in their mind instead.
Followers of Helm which wore the Helm and spoke the activation word would see the spells it offered displayed one by one inside the visor, in alphabetical order and in ascending level. The user could also bring a specific spell to view instantly by speaking its name aloud. While the Helm was a good way for faithful to learn new spells, wearing it prevented most spellcasting as it reduced the casters vision and made it harder to concentrate.
If the Helm was worn by a formal priest of Helm, it removed the wearers need for sleep, and made them immune to exhaustion and weariness. It also protected the wearer against all charm and enchantment spells, and greatly empowered any guardian or protection spells they cast.
As a spellbook, the Helm contained information on a variety of protection spells such as anti-vermin barrier or protection from evil. It also contained prayers detailing spells meant to support allies, such as chant or cure serious wounds, and offensive spells such as fist of faith or flame strike. Finally, it gave access to several spells specific to the Helmite faith, such as mace of Odo, seeking sword, or sentry of Helm.
The last known in-depth examination of the Helm revealed that it provided prayers covering over 40 spells to the faithful.
The Helm was found by the helmite cleric Garshond in the  while defending the town of Iriaebor against an army of goblinoids. It was said that the Helm rose out of a battlefield bog and presented itself to the cleric. It was unclear whether Helm created the item at that moment, or took it from the bones of an older champion of his faith laying under the waters of the bog. Garshond kept the Helm in his possession until his death in the , at which point the relic disappeared for a time.
The Helm resurfaced in Westgate during the , where it was used by the church of Shar as a bait to assassinate priests of opposing clergies. Days of battle plagued the town after that, involving several bands of adventurers and mercenaries, hordes of summoned monsters, faithfuls of Shar and Helm, as well as some Red Wizards of Thay. Those events ultimately led to the Helmite priest Carath acquiring the Helm in the . It was said that Carath added more spells to the Helm under the guidance of his deity, and used it until his death in the .
The last known owner of the Helm was a Helmite priest known as Rolor, who used it to fight Zhentarim forces near Darkhold before disappearing in the Tunlands.