The Helm of Dragons was a potent magical item made in Myth Drannor that was forged to defeat Tyranthraxus the Flamed One but which bestowed powers over all dragonkind.
Accounts described it as a gold circlet, despite its name. On its brow was a green-hued gem, inside which was the image of a dragon standing upon its hind legs.Obviously the depiction of the Helm of Dragons in the Curse of the Azure Bonds video games "Adventurers Journal" is very different from that described in the Curse of the Azure Bonds adventure module.
On donning the Helm of Dragons, the wearer learned of its powers.
Its primary, and highly specific, power was to locate the pool of radiance in which Tyranthraxus dwelled. This functioned up to  away. Moreover, it granted the wearer greater resistances against Tyranthraxuss magic.
Moreover, it also enabled the wearer to speak with all dragons in their native languages. Most significantly, however, the wearer of the Helm of Dragons was made immune to all attacks by all living dragons. (Undead dragons, like dracoliches, did not count.)
However, all these powers were only active when Tyranthraxus was present on Toril. Once he was killed or banished, it fell dormant and only awakened at the Flamed Ones return. 
In any case, as a helmet, it of course also protected the wearers head.
The elves of Myth Drannor fashioned the Helm of Dragons at the height of that citys prosperity, some time before its fall in the . Although their intent was to create an instrument with which to combat the evil entity known as Tyranthraxus, the Possessing Spirit, it was later discovered to have an array of other powers, particularly over dragons.
250px|Dracandros of the Crimson facing the adventurers. The Helm of Dragons not shown.
At some point, in the mid–14 century DR, a disgraced and banished Red Wizard of Thay named Dracandros of the Crimson sought out the Helm of Dragons. He believed that by using the Helm to speak with many of the great dragons of the North he could trigger a new Flight of Dragons and devastate the Realms, all just to win glory among his old peers and be readmitted to their ranks. Dracandros made an ally of the dracolich Crimdrac and established himself in Hap, Battledale. and finally found the Helm of Dragons.
Then Tyranthraxus himself contacted Dracandros, under the codename "Lord T", and invited him to join the New Alliance of the Bonds. Dracandros accepted, believing the New Alliance would only aid his mad scheme.
However, in the , following instructions from Elminster, adventurers bearing the azure bonds confronted Dracandros in his tower on Haptooth Hill. They defeated Dracandros and dealt with the dragons he was negotiating with, lifted the curse of the azure bonds, and took the Helm of Dragons. It gave them the whereabouts of Tyranthraxus so they might finish their quest, with the protection of the helm and other items.The fate of the Helm of Dragons is unknown, but if it survived the battle with Tyranthraxus, it is possible Elminster received it, as he was later in possession of the Gauntlets of Moander.
* Dracandros of the Crimson, an ex–Red Wizard who hoped to start a new Flight of Dragons