Illags Abominable Beacon was a magical lantern.
Illags Abominable Beacon was a creation of malevolent intent. It was a -tall, -wide cylinder, equipped with a single set of shutters, and was constructed from the blackest iron. Its appearance suggested partial melting, which was an intentional design feature. Atop the cylinder rested a large skull, with two black onyx gems set in the eye sockets. The handle, protruding through the top of the skull, was fashioned from human bone. The entire lantern weighs approximately .
If any creature of good or neutral alignment touched the lantern, they suffered damage. Should an evil creature grasp Illags Abominable Beacon, there was a chance it could result in possession, causing the creature to be unable to release the lantern and to defend it with their life. This possession was permanent and could only be removed by a limited wish or wish spell.
Illags Abominable Beacon possessed two enchantments. The first allowed it to create a cone of darkness,  long and  wide at its broadest point, lasting as long as the bearer maintained concentration. In other respects, this darkness functioned identically to the spell, darkness, 15 radius.
The second enchantment bestowed the lantern with its name. Upon mental command, it acted as a beacon to any undead in the vicinity. When this power was activated, the onyx gems in the eye sockets of the skull emitted a pulsing black light. All undead within  were summoned by the pulses. These undead were controlled by the lantern holder. Undead that were not controlled attacked the lantern holder. This summoning did not work if the lantern holder was in an area inaccessible to the undead.
Illags Abominable Beacon was the creation of the Void Mage, Illag, with the assistance of the priests of Bane. Illag sold it to the temple in Thay in exchange for divine aid. The lantern remained in the temple until it was stolen by a young Zhentarim priest named Zanepar and taken to Zhentil Keep. Zanepar employed this malevolent item frequently in his brotherhoods battles for control of the Moonsea region. However, when ordered to surrender the lantern to his superiors, Zanepar fled with it into the Thunder Peaks.
The lantern was not seen again until it was used by an orc shaman during a raid. Numerous agents from Zhentil Keep have ventured into the mountains in search of the artifact, hoping to retrieve it, but none have succeeded. The lair of the orcs was rumored to be located somewhere northeast of the Spiderhaunt Woods, but no one has been able to find its entrance.