Jade was the generally accepted name for a class of stones found in the Realms that included jadeite and nephrite.
Like many other lower-value gemstones found in massive formations, jadeite and nephrite were often used in bulk for stonecarving, while samples with the most desirable composition would instead be cut into precious gemstones. When jade was freshly mined, it was found in shades of light to dark green, and white. As it aged, jade turned a warm brown hue. Jade had a waxy appearance when polished and was easily carved. This stone was completely opaque unless carved thin enough for light to filter through, giving it a warm glow.
thumb|200px|A polished jadeite.
Powdered jade had an affinity for illusion/phantasm spells and was the ingredient of choice when mixing magic inks to scribe such spell scrolls. It was also necessary in immersions for items intended to create illusions. The best time of day for mixing jade dust into a magical preparation was candleglass time.According to Elminster, this was between 845 pm and 915 pm.
Jade was used as the material component for the hail of stone spell and by Kara-Turan versions of the shape change spell.
Bards and other musicians in the Realms wore jade for luck as it was said to improve musical talent.This view was based on the fact that jade jewelry, according to Elminster, could be easily enchanted to give a musician "perfect pitch" and improve his or her hearing. The stones were also favored by the gods Baravar Cloakshadow, Erevan Ilesere, and Urogalan.
Jade was a common stone among the drow, a gem worn by drow of average station. It was under common use as an inlay-stone or decoration.
In Kara-Tur, jade was believed to block the passage of all manner of ghosts.
The craftsmen of Shou Lung were skilled in the working of jade of all kinds, and the finest quality jade on Toril was mined in that land.
The gem dragon sorceress Nyadnar had a house with display cases, stands, and pedestals to showcase her wide collection of gemstones, and many of these displays were themselves made of polished jadeite and nephrite.
By the late 15 century DR, much of the jade found in the Western Heartlands came from the Sea of Fallen Stars.