The katana () was a type of sword used in some lands of Kara-Tur. Thanks to its normally exceptional design and craftsmanship, the katana was renowned as one of the best-quality non-magical swords around, combining grace, design, efficiency, and sharpness.
thumb|left|The guard, hilt, and pommel of the Corthala family blade.
A medium-length sword, the blade of the katana was slightly curved, with a single-edge on the outside of the curve and tipped with a sharp chisel point. With quality metal and forging, the blade could be ground until it was sharp as a razor. Properly crafted, the blade had both flexibility and strength while being light and well balanced. Its total length was around  and it weighed . The hilt was long enough for either a one-handed or two-handed grip and had a small, circular guard, with no quillons or other protections.
Moreover, patterns, prayers, or lineages of ones family might be etched on the blade, with additional adornment added to the guard, hilt and scabbard alike, making the whole weapon quite beautiful.
Being a rather large weapon, a katana had to be wielded two-handed by humans and others of their size. Special training (or giant size) was required to wielded it one-handed.
Some samurai even wielded their katana and wakizashi together in a two-weapon fighting style, with one in each hand.
In a technique called iaijutsu, samurai could learn to draw a katana or wakizashi and slash at an enemy all in a single smooth action.
thumb|250px|right|The katana known as Celestial Fury being presented.
The skills required to craft a katana were rare and prized, Some notable swordsmiths who made katanas were the mystic Chigatta, Hiroyasu Ohta of Wa, and Master Hu Li.
A katanas value varied widely, according to the craftsmanship, artistry, and the history and significance of the individual sword. The cost could be as low as 50 gp for an average sword including scabbard to 100 gp to as much as 300 or 400 gp for a masterwork example.
The boku-toh or bokken was a wooden imitation katana used for training purposes, simulating weight and shape. It had a safer blunt edge, but was a decent bludgeoning weapon if swung hard enough, but was wielded as a sword in all respects. It cost 6 yuan.
The katana was a significant part of many cultures in Kara-Tur. To a samurai, their personal katana was no simple sword, but aspect of the honor of both themselves and their family. It could be used no-one else to unsheathe it or even just touch the scabbard without permission might be seen an insult.
Individual katanas typically had their own distinct names, based on any illustrious battles they had been wielded in.
A particular katana could be a cherished family heirloom, passed down through the generations. If it was lost, family members might quest to recover it and castigate the culprits to alleviate their own shame. A number of samurai even died to retrieve the katana of their family.
The katana was known as the finest sword ever made to the peoples of the Western Heartlands.
The design of the katana evolved steadily over time from more ordinary swords, particularly the longsword.
The custom of samurai wielding the daisho of katana and wakizashi was unique to the lands of Wa and Kozakura in Kara-Tur. The swords—wielded separately—were common in the hands of other warriors, monsters, and supernatural beings in these lands and also used in Shou Lung. However, it was very rare for foreigners to possess them they were believed to be honored gifts from important friends, or to have been taken by theft or looting.
However, the swords had spread as far as Faerûn in the mid–14 century DR, such as in the hands of Shou expatriates and other Kara-Turans traveling the Golden Way through Thesk, wielded by the Bushido mercenaries in Chessenta, or by various misadventures (with several katanas known as Master Lis Way coming from a ship that ran aground on the Sword Coast The Corthala family of Amn had their own family heirloom katana. Even Karsellyn Lylyl-Lytherraias, a drow cleric of Eilistraee, wielded a katana while on Evermeet.
The art of making katanas was also known on Abeir, as they were one of the traditional weapons of the dragonborn.Katanas are mentioned as one of the traditional weapons of dragonborn culture in Wizards Presents Races and Classes, which means they must have existed in dragonborn culture since before the Spellplague transported them to Toril. 
thumb|An enchanted acid-etched silk-handled katana.
Believed to be an almost-perfect weapon already, it was very difficult to enchant a katana as a magical weapon. To do so often needed a great sacrifice for example, a samurai who lay dying could plead with a wu jen to infuse their warrior spirit with that of their sword. Seeing death as the ultimate challenge to overcome, such great warriors chose to sacrifice their bodies and live on in their ancestral swords. The greater their prowess and their nobility, the more potent the sword would be. One supreme example was known as the Sword Saint Legacy. One who would wield such a katana must then honor the customs of the samurai, or else their fortunes would turn against them.
A katana (or longsword) of a certain value must be shattered on a stone as a material component for the spell sword of darkness to be cast.
See also CategoryKatanas
* Celestial Fury, crafted by the mystic Chigatta and bearing the soul of a dragon
* Celestial Fury, a sword of Shou Lung bearing the soul of a celestial
* The Lost Sword, the last work of master Wanese swordsmith Hiroyasu Ohta
* Shichis katana, sword of the monk Shichi No Ken
* Harmony Sword, heirloom of the Tanomitsu family
* Crimson Katana, the prized weapon of General Ito Tadashiro
* Lightning-Stroke Blade, the lost sword of Hidegari Iegusa of Wa