Kings tears (also seen as kings tears) were extremely rare jewels unique to the Realms. They were sometimes called frozen tears or lich weepings. These stones were sacred to the faiths of the dwarven god Dugmaren Brightmantle, the drow goddess Kiaransalee, the elven god Labelas Enoreth, the orcish god Luthic, and the human goddess Siamorphe.
These rare stones were transparent, colorless, teardrop-shaped with a smooth surface, and incredibly hard. No mundane means were known that could break, chip, cut, etch, fracture, or even scuff one of these jewels&mdashthey were always found in this perfect state. A typical specimen had a base value of 5,000 gp.
Each specimen contained a sharply detailed, life-like image or scene that could be viewed by gazing deeply into the stone. Some contained an image of a person some contained a panoramic view of a landscape or a battle in a place long forgotten or ravaged by time and some held unfathomable dream-like scenes. What these images portrayed and what relationship they had with each other remained unknown, but sages fervently studied them.
Star elves were able to acquire a vast quantity of these gems and were able to use them to store information of their own. They were even able to put the gems into a device that would read the contents of the Kings Tear back out loud. They created large libraries of information using these devices in Sildëyuir and their enemies, the nilshai were known to pay huge sums of money to acquire one of the gems in the hopes of finding secrets about the star elves.
The legend lore spell could take hours, days, or weeks to cast, but when cast in the presence (within 90 ft or 27 m) of a kings tear, the casting time was reduced to 20 minutes and the caster was mentally granted a word or a name that was a critical clue to the person, place, or thing that was being researched. Needless to say, kings tears were valued by sages above all other gems.
A ritual, known to only a handful of liches, archmages, and high priests, could be used to gain wisdom by the sacrifice of one of these jewels. Knowledge of this ritual was a closely guarded secret.
If enchanted correctly, a kings tear could be magically cut into one to four gems of insight.
An extremely rich deposit of kings tears could be found in Thaymount, under the Citadel, within the deeper tunnels of the Paths of the Doomed.
Folklore suggested that these stones were the tears of long-dead necromancer kings and queens, crystallized to preserve the view of what they loved.