Legendmaker was a sentient magical longsword and a divine relic of the Church of Oghma that was created by the Lord of Knowledge himself.
Oghma forged the sword known as legendmaker in the years after the Time of Troubles of 1358 DR and bestowed it upon his faithful. It was turning up in the hands of clerics, bards, and other Oghmanytes in the early 1370s DR.
The purpose of legendmaker was, as its name suggested, to experience the adventures of its bearers and their companions, to recall them, and to relate them to others later. It commonly came into the hands of rising young Oghmanytes who had a penchant for travel but were too reticent, too introverted, or otherwise unable to tell the story of their own lives.
Despite its purpose of speaking for others, legendmaker was more than willing to speak for itself. It would readily voice its opinions, give advice, share information (often too much information), propose overly complicated plans, and sing songs, and was not shy about boasting of being an amazing weapon personally forged by the Binder of What is Known. Legendmaker loved learning and all fields of knowledge.
Beginning as a +1 longsword, it would rise in its level of enchantment as its wielders legend unfolded. Moreover, even if they had no training with longswords, the wielder would automatically become proficient with legendmaker.
Legendmaker was highly intelligent and charismatic, with a neutral nature and of course a strong ego. It was skilled in appraising valuables, singing, and spell-craft, and in assorted general knowledge as bards were. It could even sing magical music like a bard, but could not do this and attack at the same time. It communicated verbally and telepathically, and knew the languages of the common races, Common, Dwarven, Elven, Gnome, Halfling, but could only speak, not read them. It sensed through hearing, darkvision, and blindsense.
However, the powers of legendmaker only functioned for an owner who worshiped Oghma, already had some adventurers under their belt, and was a committed true believer in the Binder or else had sacrificed a divine spell.
Crafting a weapon like legendmaker would require talent for forging and enchanting magical weapons and sanctifying relics, as well as the spells legend lore and miracle.