Nis was a blade created by the diviner Telarian, using the darkness of Nanguliss decanted soul after the creation of Angul. Its creator meant to use it as part of his plan to release the Traitor from his prison in Stardeep by merging it with Angul to create Angul-Nis, a weapon capable of sundering the wards keeping the abomination imprisoned.
Nis was a black sword, so black that it registered almost like a gap in perception.
Nis was a powerful blade and the malevolent and nihilistic counterpart to Angul. It bore some powers that separated it from its counterpart it boosted its wielders reflexes to a greater degree, though it was not as powerful as Angul was in Kirils hands. It also granted its wielder the ability to gain visions related to the history of their environment.
Just like Angul, it had an overbearing ego, being capable of seducing and twisting even its own creator, Telarian. However, its most salient ability was that it could confuse the otherwise relentlessly discerning Angul into believing its twin and their wielder possessed unimpeachable characters.
Merged with Angul it would become Angul-Nis, a sword capable of damaging the wards that kept the Traitor imprisoned. More than that, Nis could operate as a trap for the soul of Nangulis, forcing the swords to remain merged even if their shared spirit was against it so long as Telarian wielded the weapon.
After Nangulis and Cynosure constructed Angul out of all that was good and right in Nanguliss soul, the remainder of his being was stored against future need by Cynosure. Nis was later forged by Telarian from the fragments of Nanguliss soul that were left over after the forging of Angul just as the Blade Cerulean carried all that was good and disciplined about him, the Blade Umber bore only the nihilistic, repressed, yet purified and weaponized impulses of his heart. Though at first Telarian distrusted the blades influence, a more and more constant companion.
Telarian mostly called upon the blades ego to soothe his nerves through difficult situations. He used the weapon only a few times, such as to slay Brathtar. Telarian carried the weapon while riding out to capture Kiril Duskmourn while in the process, he used the blade to slay a relic lich alongside Kiril. When the two of them returned to Stardeep, after Delphe told Kiril that Telarian was the traitor, he used the sword to try to strike her down.
After Angul was used to block Telarians attack with Nis, the blades merged into Angul-Nis. Using the sword, Telarian struck down Delphe and Cynosure the diviner then began to sunder the wards on the Traitors prison. On the verge of releasing him, he lost the blade after being stabbed in the back by Gage. His sword split again into Angul and Nis. Nis fell down the Throat alongside its wielder the newly sundered Nis lost its enchantment, and its fragments of Nanguliss soul were released, before the Traitor could use the blade to free himself.
*Telarian