Nutmeg was ground seeds of the nutmeg tree most often used as a spice and often traveling across Toril as a valuable trade commodity.
Nutmeg was distributed via Auroras Whole Realms Catalogue and sold for 3 silver coins per 4 ounces for wizardly use,
The Harrowcoaster House train company of Harrowdale imported various good via the Dragon Reach and moved them into the Dalelands and Cormyr. These goods included such pricy spices as nutmeg and saffron.
In Athkatla, Amn, the Waft in the citys Trades District had many stalls build that specialized in several exotic goods. One such stall sold nutmeg.
Lord Huehm Gultossan of Ravens Bluff earned a fortune for the Gultoss family through the trade of nutmeg, along with other valuable spices.
Nutmeg was one of many trade goods that crossed the Endless Wastes from east to west and vice-versa, carried by well guarded caravans.
In the city of Baldurs Gate, the visitors of Elfsong Tavern were offered simple open-faced sandwiches of malt bread and melted cheese, sprinkled with dill, nutmeg, and other spices dustings.
In Waterdeep, ground nutmeg was used to bake sweet treats, popular among kids.
In the Dalelands, the dish known as the High Dale Lamb called for a dash of nutmeg.
The famous Blentras Oysters and Wild Rice in Mushroom Soup from Marsember called for a pinch of nutmeg.
Nutmeg was a common addition to warmed mulled ale at the Oldcoats Inn of Cormyr.
Waukeens Rest inn in the Western Heartlands served creamy potato mash sprinkled with black pepper and nutmeg.
Similarly mulled wine was conceited in Calimshan and Tethyr with such additions to the warm libation as raisins, cinnamon, fennel, anise, nutmeg, and cloves.
Storm Silverhand, one of the Seven Sisters, liked a hearty morningfeast of fresh milk, dove eggs with sage, cheese, poured with a hearty nutmeg sauce with bacon slabs and fried mushrooms.
Nutmeg possessed minor medicinal properties, elevating nausea, vomiting and diarrhea.
Calishite and Tethyrian mulled wine was often used as a remedy for nausea, cough, and sore throat.
Even though nutmeg was mostly harmless, when it was consumed together with nauthus, an oily thickener often stirred into gravy and sauce, they formed a swiftly-acting extremely deadly poison.
Nutmeg was used in the formulation of the hag-made potion Butterflies in the Stomach, which only managed to cause internal bleeding.
In 1325 DR, Shamress Tarlunt of Silverbow Hold wrote a coded letter to her brother Teldam Tarlunt about a rich Tarluntian Darromar gnome family, listing nutmeg among the ingredients required for her chicken soup recipe.
Circa 1480s DR the kitchens of the Skyreach Castle, the citadel of the Cult of the Dragon, were well-stocked with black pepper, cinnamon, and nutmeg.