A pen, also called an ink pen, was a writing utensil and drawing device.
The standard inkpen was a stick of wood fitted with a special tip that drew up ink when dipped into it.
A quill pen.
Pens were used to transfer ink to paper, usually by scholars to scribe books and diplomats to write and sign contracts. Special forgery pens were produced for those who wanted to alter documents with precision. Simple pens were included in map-making kits.
Pens were symbols of authority in Kara-Tur and represented two of the nine Gifts of the Faith. Golden pens represented writing and jade pens represented history. Pen schools that taught art were even known the exist in the eastern continent, particularly the one founded by Shen Shou.
Quill pens were used as material components for several spells, both divine and arcane. However, if one wanted to scribe a magical scroll, special types of pens would be needed, such as quills made from magical beasts.
There were several types of ink pen, from simple goose feather quills to special metal-nibbed pens. They ranged in price depending on the quality of the pen. Standard ink pens cost just 2 cp each, but deluxe metal nibs imported from Kara-Tur sold for 70 gp a set. More modern pens were designed to hold reservoirs of ink, so that they did not need to be continuously dipped in ink, unlike quills.
Spells could be use to replicate the effect of a pen and ink. The amanuensis spell created an animated pen to duplicate magical writing. The magical pen could write just as quick as the caster, and the caster did not even have to be present.
Magical pens were known to exist throughout the multiverse. One such item was a quill pen that hovered above paper and wrote by itself. It also had the capabilities of speaking Common.
In ancient times, the overgod Ao created the Tablets of Fate. Before they assumed the form of tablets, they appeared as a quill pen of misty force (as well as other forms).
In 1357 DR, the catacombs of Waterdeep contained a magical pen that could speak and write without a user. 
In the 15 century DR, the beholder Lorthuun guarded a Zhentarim warehouse in Mantol-Derith. The warehouse stockpiled several useful items, including several ink pens.
A quill pen featured on the coat of arms of the Estelmer family.
Those of the Stationers Guild of Waterdeep wore white robes with black quill pens on their breasts. The Waterdhavian Estelmer family were skilled printers and their coat of arms featured a turquoise quill pen.
Jergals holy symbol was that of a quill pen upon a skull, and Deneir, the Scribe of Oghma was represented as a scholar holding a quill pen.
Pens were often used as the representation of peace and civilization, as opposed to the sword, which represented war and battle.
* Ito Chomei, the Paper Warrior. If Chomeis quill pen or paper was moved, the words inked onto the paper would spring to life, summoning the Paper Warrior. The Paper Warrior fought with a magical pen that could confuse his enemies. He also kept a box of pen nibs, though one was actually a katana charm that fit into a special medallion.
* Lhaeo, the scribe of Elminster, was known to stockpile ink pens, ink, and parchment. He insisted that letters to his master must be written in Common, Thorass, and Dwarvish.
* Quillan the Sage, a treasurer who calculated the Council of Bloodstones wealth with his quill pen.
The adventuress Zaranda Star owned a pen from Kara-Tur made from a spine from a sahuagin and tipped with a steel nib.
* The Paper Warrior owned a magical pen that would literally rewrite the perception of reality of his enemies. The effects of the enchanted pen would confuse or even charm those who were struck.
* A fire quill could be summoned by the arcane spell of the same name. These quill pens could write letters formed of leaping illusory flames. The words written by fire quills could be read by those even several feet away.