The Prismatic Coloring Machine was a magical device that could change the color of someones hair, and produce unpredictable magical effects. It was created by an evil clone of the barber Jooge Nopsmoth, and used for his nefarious purposes.
The Prismatic Coloring Machine was a huge machine that was stored in a cavern beneath Jooge Nopsmoths barbershop in Silverymoon. The machine incorporated a chair for a creature to sit on. Another creature could operate the controls of the machine, affecting the hair of the seated creature. Barbers who operated the machine could make it easier for the seated creature to resist the potentially harmful effects of the machine. Although the effects of the machine were random, the evil clone of Jooge was skilled in operating it and had more chance of getting a result that he liked. The walls of the cave in which the machine was stored had been dyed in all colors of the rainbow by the machines operation. The machine was unstable and risked exploding if used too often without allowing for a cool-down period of 24 hours. If it exploded, it would create the effect of a prismatic spray spell.   
The Prismatic Coloring Machine accessed an extradimensional reality of colors. It channeled these colors into the hairstyles that it gave to the creatures that sat on its chair. When in operation, the machine transformed the targets hair and sometimes their body into one of eight differently colored forms red, orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo, or violet. The machine also had a rare chance of affecting them with two colors at once. The effects of the machine could only be reversed by the wish spell.  
Creatures affected by the red mode of the machine were burnt by heat. If they resisted the heat, their hair transformed into fire. As a result, they were be less harmed by fire, but more harmed by cold. Their fire hair made it harder for them to move stealthily, as they were easier to notice. Creatures with long fire hair were able to cast the spell burning hands without any spell components simply by shaking their hair.  
Creatures affected by the orange mode of the machine were blasted with an acidic substance. If they resisted the acid, their hair transformed into an ooze. As a result, they were less harmed by acidic damage. This ooze-hair thought for itself and could act independently of its host. Depending on their hair length, it also had the ability to attack with a pseudopod. If its host died while the ooze lived, it would absorb the consciousness of the dead host. The host could then choose to be brought back from death, by being transformed into either a gelatinous cube or an ochre jelly. The resulting creature retained the memories and personality of its original host.    
Creatures affected by the yellow mode of the machine were zapped with electricity. If they resisted the electricity, their hair transformed into sparking electricity. This made them easier to spot, but allowed them to cast the spell shocking grasp without any spell components simply by shaking their hair. Creatures with longer hair could choose to cast lightning bolt instead.  
Creatures affected by the green mode of the machine were struck with poison. If they resisted the poison, the machine changed their whole body rather than just their hair, transforming them into a green-scaled yuan-ti. The machine was able to transform creatures into different sorts of yuan-ti, but often defaulted to a yuan-ti pureblood. If the creature wasnt strong willed, their alignment would also be changed to neutral evil.  
Creatures affected by the blue mode of the machine were frozen by a blast of cold. If they resisted the cold, their hair transformed into ice crystals. This made them resistant to extreme cold, but allowed them to cast the spell ice knife without any spell components simply by shaking their hair. Creatures with longer hair could choose to cast Snillocs snowball swarm instead.  
The hair of creatures affected by the indigo mode turned into gemstones that moved and felt like normal hair. The gem hair could be cut from their body and sold as hard gems. The longer the hair, the more valuable the gems could be. However, when they were affected by the indigo mode, the creature had to resist petrification. This could result in a stone creature with valuable gem hair.  
Creatures affected by the violet mode of the machine had to resist being blinded. Their hair became a planar portal. However, the portals opening was dependent on the size and shape of the creatures hairstyle. The plane that the portal led to was unpredictable and could be different each time the violet mode occurred.   
The Prismatic Coloring Machine  was created by an evil clone of the barber Jooge Nopsmoth that was created when Errevastica the annis used a special process to cut the hair of the korred Bezoar. This evil clone of Jooge supplanted the original Jooge and replaced him in his Silverymoon barbershop. He captured Bernadette, a member of the Arcane Brotherhood who was caught unawares while getting curls applied to her hair. Evil Jooge kept Bernadette in an oubliette under the barbershop while he learned from her the magic that allowed him to create the Prismatic Coloring Machine.   
Some time later, adventurers pursuing rumors of disappearances in Silverymoon discovered the tunnels beneath the barbershop. They encountered Bernadette and the machine. Bernadette wished to be freed and to deactivate the machine herself.