A purification candle was a special magic item made by mystics in the Realms. It could cure all manner of illness and disease, or remove a curse, or banish an extraplanar creature.
Purification candles were white in color and intended to be burnt in ten-minute intervals. The longest-lasting candle that could be manufactured burned for ninety minutes. For good mystics, this was the seventh type of candle they learned to make when investigating candle magic. Neutral mystics could choose to learn to make this candle after they reached a sufficiently high level, but choosing this candle excluded them from ever studying to make the black curse candle.
After burning for the desired amount of time and then being extinguished (either by blowing, snuffing, dousing, or reaching the end of its wick), this candle performed one of three possible functions for each ten-minute interval it remained lit.The source does not outline any method of choosing which function will manifest for each ten-minute burning. It might produce each effect in a rotation, or it might be completely random, or something else. The magic took effect when the candle was extinguished.
Purification of the environment This burning of the candle could banish one creature that was not native to the plane of the mystic who created the candle. Any single creature that was less powerful than a demigod was forced back to its home plane with no chance to resist.
Purification of the mind and body This application granted the healing effects of an elixir of health, curing both natural and magical afflictions such as mental disorders (feeblemindedness, insanity), physical disorders (blindness, deafness), and invasive attacks (poison, infection, infestation, disease, rot).
Purification of the soul When the flame went out on this segment of the candle, it cast remove curse with the same potency as a good mystic of the minimum level required to manufacture a purification candle. This could exactly counteract one application of a curse candle.
The subject(s) had to remain within ten feet (three meters) of the burning candle for the entire time it was lit and when it was extinguished or that application of the candle was wasted.