A quiver of Mielikki, also known as a quiver of Solonor,This magic item is commonly called the quiver of Ehlonna. However, Ehlonna is a goddess of the Greyhawk setting with no presence in the Forgotten Realms but substituted for Mielikki. Instead, some FR sources rename it as above. Hence, this article uses the quiver of Mielikki name exclusively. and as a quiver of Ehlonna on Oerth and other worlds, was a magical quiver that could hold a large number of weapons and ammunition without ever increasing its volume or weight.
The quiver of Mielikki appeared like a well-crafted but otherwise mundane quiver, weighing only  and sized to apparently hold only twenty arrows. It had three compartments of different lengths. If examined with detect magic, it bore an aura of the alteration or conjuration school of magic.
Each of the quivers compartments connected to an extradimensional space that could hold a variety of items without increasing the quivers weight. The smallest compartment could hold up to sixty arrows or other items of similar size and shape. The medium compartment was slightly longer and could hold up to eighteen javelins or comparable objects. The largest and longest compartment could hold up to six objects of the size of quarterstaffs, spears, or longbows. Thus, it could store up to 84 items in total.
The bearer of the quiver only had to command it to produce a item, provided it had already been placed inside. Drawing an object from it required no more effort than drawing from a normal quiver.
Shandie Freefoots quiver only held up to sixty arrows, but magically replenished their supply. 
250px|A quiver of Ehlonna Mielikki and a +1 bow to go with it.
In order to craft a quiver of Mielikki, it was necessary to know the Leomunds secret chest spell.
It could be purchased for 1,800 gp and sold for up to 10,000 gp.
As their names suggested, these magical quivers were associated with the faiths of Mielikki, the Supreme Ranger, and Solonor Thelandira, the Great Archer. The Solonorans prized them alongside other magical quivers and bows.
Quivers of Mielikki were favored by Damaran humans and they were common in their lands. They could be bought for 10% less than normal in the larger cities of Damara and Impiltur.
* Artus Cimber an immortal bara and the guardian of the Ring of Winter owned a quiver of Mielikki in the late 15 century DR.
* Shandie Freefoot the halfling rogue owned a quiver of Mielikki that was acquired over the course of her adventures.
* A band of 24 crypt things in Orcuss Abyssal layer kept a quiver of Mielikki among their treasure in the late 1350s DR.
* A quiver of Mielikki was part of the treasure of Safehaven Inn in Waterdeep around 1368 DR.