Ruby was a variety of corundum that was a popular and plentiful jewel and had many magical uses in addition to its appeal as a sparkling gemstone. It was cherished by worshipers of many gods, including Callarduran Smoothhands, Erevan Ilesere, Gorm Gulthyn, Haela Brightaxe, and Labelas Enoreth.
Rubies came in a variety of colors, from colorless through shades of red to deep crimson. The darker the shade and the fewer the inclusions and impurities, the more valuable was the gem. A typical specimen had a base value of 5,000 gp. About one in every hundred rubies was a star ruby.
Rubies were believed to represent love and revenge.
Ancient gem magic associated rubies with the healing powers of earth, which was the source of ruby golems ability to regenerate and their affinity for travelling underground.
A blood ruby.
Facet cut and polished rubies were required in the crafting of a helm of brilliance and were the gem of choice in decorating items that produced healing magic. With the proper incantations, rubies could ward against natural and magical lightning and earthquakes. Extremely rarely, a ruby might contain a creature that could be released from the stone by delicately shattering it. Such creatures were usually unknown in Faerûn and grew rapidly upon release.
A crushed ruby worth at least 1,000 gp was required to cast the extremely powerful necromatic spell soul shift.
thumb|A storm  ruby.
Rubies were one of the preferred gems for the psionic circuitry in the inventions of the Creative Creed.
Supposedly, powdered ruby was an ingredient in the vision-granting deep gnomish wine Gogondy.
Rubies were considered prized gems among the drow. They especially liked the darker ones.
* Kossuth ruby was a magical gem that held a spark of elemental fire.
* The Wyvern Crown of Cormyr was studded with jewels, including rubies.
* Members of the knightly order, the Keepers of the Mystic Flame, were awarded for defeating beings that posed a magical threat to all of the Realms.
* Sune, the goddess of love was known to wear rubies in her hair.