Sava was a board game created by the drow that represented a war between two noble houses.
It was played on a web-shaped, grid-like board to control movement. Each side controlled an area of the board designated the House. Paths radiated from the Houses and spiraled across the board and into opposing Houses.
The pieces in sava were labeled Mother, Priestess, Wizard, Warrior, and Slave. Each had different abilities. The Mother started play in the House. Certain adaptations were allowed, especially in a deity-played game. In the case of the Lolth versus Eilistraee matches, there were hundreds of thousands of pieces, each representing a real drow soul. In their final game, the Mother piece represented each goddess specifically and capturing this piece would not only end the game, but also see the losing goddess slain. Lolths champion, the demigod Selvetarm, also added himself as a Warrior and he was ultimately slain in the game.
The game involved the movement and capture of pieces.
In order to inject a bit of chaos into their game, the drow used a pair of octohedral dice designed for a sava game. Each player was allowed a single roll of the dice in a game, in lieu of a regular move, and if they rolled double spiders they were allowed to move one of their opponents pieces (within its given range of motion) to attack another of their opponents pieces—a representation of drow betraying their comrades for personal achievements even when houses were warring against each other. For example, when Lolth rolled double ones in her match against Eilistraee, the result was good for Lolth. Eilistraees earlier roll of double ones also caused a great strategic victory for Eilistraee, but this turned out to be planned by Lolth all along.
It was common to gamble on the game as well.
Early versions of sava had pieces depicting drow on one side and dwarves on the other, with the game representing their ancient conflict. However, the drow stopped making these centuries before the 1300s DR, most likely because no drow wanted to play the dwarves.
The drow goddesses Lolth and Eilistraee played, with the game representing their control over the drow race itself.