The Shortbow of Gesen, also known as the iron bow of Gesen, was a unique and powerful shortbow crafted by Gesen Khan, a legendary chieftain amongst the Tuigans, some time before the mid-14 century DR. It was believed that no ordinary man could bend the bow nor could survive its deadly missiles.
The iron bow of Gesen was the finest bow to had ever been created by Gesen Khan. of green. The shaft was made out of iron, masterfully worked to appear almost indistinguishable from wood under casual examination. Despite that, it was light and could be drawn more effectively than iron should allow.
The shortbows magic was fueled by the energy it drew from the planes. The bow focused the planar energy into spears of lightning and arrows of fire that were fired out instead of normal arrows. Once per day, the bow also could fire an arrow of slaying. Additionally, the iron bow of Gesen possessed potent +4 or +5 enchantments that made the weapons damage more destructive and guided the missiles toward their targets. Its offensive magics had one side effect – they granted the wielder protection against electricity. When the wielders used ordinary or enchanted arrows with the bow, instead of bolds of electricity, the arrows jumped from the quiver onto the bow via its magic, allowing the wielder to unleash arrows four times quicker than a normal bow. Additionally, its range was double that of a normal shortbow.
Legends also stated that an arrow unleashed from the iron bow of Gesen could splinter a tree and shatter stone, and it was believed that anyone who wielded the weapon received a gift of perfect aim even after the bow left their hands.
Lastly, there were dangers in wielding this artifact. It possessed the curse that had a chance of gradually transforming the wielder into a horseman of the steppes, body and mind. The transformation gradually changed their appearance and could cause them to forget how to read or sail or some other knowledge and skills not typically known to a Tuigan warrior, instead becoming experts in bowmanship, horseback riding, etc. This transformation did not affect the individuals class, but once complete, the wielder became fully possessed by the artifact, becoming compelled to take on adventures and good deeds and causes. The curse could be lifted by returning the bow to Gesen Khans shade somewhere in the Hordelands or by breaking the bow via 1,000 blows with the hammer of Gesen.
Historians stated that Khan planned to retire after selling this powerful weapon, but instead, he was cut down by a thief, who disappeared with the shortbow of Gesen. All while, legends stated that the shortbow of Gesen was interred with Gesen Khan after his death somewhere in the Hordelands steppes, despite the weapon being seen in many other peoples hands afterward. the goal that was made complicated by the fact that many fake iron bow of Gesen being created.
By the , the shortbow of Gesen was somehow broken apart, its pieces scattered. The bowstring made its way into the hands of a group of mind flayers who established a hidden refuge in the sewers beneath Athkatla. The shaft was stored in the tannery and home of Rejiek Hidesman a serial killer, apprehended or killed in 1369 DR. 
Once both pieces of the bow were assembled, Cromwell, a master smith of Athkatla, may have had repaired the artifact.