The Soulmonger was an immensely powerful magic artifact constructed by the demilich Acererak. It was able to drain the life of any living individual on Toril who had been resurrected at some point in the past, and furthermore to capture the souls of creatures as they died anywhere on Toril.
The activation of the Soulmonger in the late 15 century DR started a worldwide emergency known as the death curse.
The Soulmonger was an upright crystalline cylinder that was  in diameter and  tall. Through the crystal could be glimpsed the forms of the spirits trapped inside, and their otherworldly screams echoed around the artifact. To protect itself, four  tentacles protruded from the top of the device, and would lash out and throw around any who attempted to damage it. The primary purpose of the Soulmonger was to feed souls to an atropal, which floated alongside it and was connected to the cylinder via its umbilical cord.
The device was located on the very lowest level of the Tomb of the Nine Gods behind a great stone gate adorned with skeletal carvings that required multiple special keys in order to open. The Soulmonger was suspended  above a large, triangular pool of lava by three adamantine struts which connected to an adamantine ring around the middle of the cylinder. These struts were each wide and sturdy enough to walk across but not strong enough to support the weight of the Soulmonger without the other two.
The Soulmonger itself was an intensely evil device that radiated intense necromantic magic. If destroyed, the countless souls trapped within the cylinder would escape as motes of light that swirled together like a tornado before vanishing to the afterlife in a bright flash.
The Soulmonger was originally constructed by Acererak and a coven of night hag witches known as the Sewn Sisters, whom he recruited for their expertise in crafting soul bags. Once the Soulmonger was activated and began inflicting the death curse across the world, it was watched over by the Sewn Sisters with Acererak keeping an eye on it from afar.
The Soulmonger was ultimately destroyed and shattered into pieces when a group of adventurers made their way through the tomb and defeated Acererak. However, shards of it spread across Chult, and came to be coveted for dark purposes by the Red Wizards of Thay, the demon prince Orcus, and yuan-ti cultists of Dendar the Night Serpent. The lich Rhaugilath also crafted an imitation of the Soulmonger&mdashalbeit one that operated on a much more limited scale&mdashknown as the Death of the Sun.
Ultimately, Szass Tam would succeed in having his agents&mdashincluding multiple zulkirs&mdashabsorb the power of the shards of the Soulmonger into special opal pendants, and then attempted to use the artifacts power to release Dendar from her prison beneath Chult. Tam had been fooled into believing that Dendar had visited him and his servants in their dreams, and that she had promised that if they released her, she would fulfill her purpose to end all life on Toril but then leave the Red Wizards as rulers over an undead world. In truth, this was a ruse devised by Rhaugilath, who sought to claim the power of the Soulmonger for himself in order to break free of his servitude to the Shadow King Larloch. Rhaugilath had been manipulating Thay, the yuan-ti, and a group of adventurers from Port Nyanzaru even since before the destruction of the Soulmonger in order to get his hands on the devices power. When Tam put the final stages of his plan into motion by sending the zulkir Ethra Dralas to the Maze of Ubtao, Rhaugilath set in motion his plan to trick the Thayans and a party of adventurers into clashing, which they did just as Dendars prison was about to open thanks to the power of the Soulmonger in the opal pendants.