| itemlevel3e   = 
| value3e       = 85,500 gp
| weight3e      = 
| refs3e        =  
| level4e       = 
| value4e       = 
| weight4e      = 
| refs4e        = 
| rarity5e      = 
| attunement5e  = 
| school5e      = 
| level5e       = 
| value5e       = 
| weight5e      = 
| refs5e        = 
| communication = 
| languages     = 
| alignment     = 
| sentientrefs  = 
A staff of Silverymoon was a unicorn-headed magical staff given to the High Mages of Silverymoon once they began their rule. Each staff had a variety of magical abilities, fitting their status as an emblem of the Gem of the North, many of which were tied to the citys own wards and enchantments. 
The body of a staff of Silverymoon was made from a thin, dark wood, and carried atop it a carving of a unicorns head.
Due to their special importance to the Gem of the North, the staffs of Silverymoon could also affect the citys most notable feature, the Moonbridge. Not only was such a staff capable of activating or ending the Moonbridge itself, but it could also make the bridge radiate moonfire, turning it visible, as well as reversing gravity across either segments or the whole of the Moonbridge for a few seconds.
Being a symbol of rulership, the staffs of Silverymoon also held a unique ability tied directly to the Silver Throne from which the High Mage governed. If they held their staff while sitting atop the throne, the magic infused into both would render the High Mage entirely immune to all magic, with the only two exceptions being a wish spell or that of the Lady of Mysteries herself, Mystra.
As the High Palace of Silverymoon contained many layered wards, the staffs further acted as a token for any and all of them, giving the High Mage a unique freedom within the palace walls. Where others were barred from entering or from casting certain spells, the possession of a staff of Silverymoon outranked even the power of these ancient dweomers. Furthermore, each staff was magically linked to other major ward tokens. With only a minor amount of concentration, anyone wielding a staff of Silverymoon was not only capable of locating these tokens within a radius of , but also of identifying whoever was using it. The staff could expand the liberties of those tokens, often amulets or rings of mithral, as well as restrict them, taking away their privileged exemptions to the wards. This last ability, however, was known only to the High Mages.
Just as a staff of Silverymoon allowed its wielder to step through the palaces various wards unmolested, it also served as a kind of key, the only thing capable of opening the hidden doors leading into the palaces lowest four dungeon levels. One such door led to the High Mages Crypt, holding no lock for it had no actual key, while another, more secretive entryway connected the depths of Lady Hopes Tower to a treasure room beneath the High Mages Keep.  
Though the rulers of Silverymoon coyly avoided confirming any rumors, some people even believed that a staff of Silverymoon was capable of awakening the stone unicorns that decorated the walls of the High Palace with only a touch.
The wielder of a staff of Silverymoon could, with only a moments concentration, flawlessly intuit the exact place where any other staff was to be found. This ability had no limit, being confined only by the borders of Realmspace.
A staff of Silverymoon allowed the High Mage to teleport to any of the other staffs or, conversely, teleport them to the High Mage. This was an intrinsic element of the staff, and so carried no chance for error, nor was there any barrier (none, at least, known to the High Mages) capable of blocking a staff of Silverymoon from teleporting when called. In the instance that a High Mage attempted to teleport to a staff that was entirely confined by a solid, however, they would be made aware of it before being transported. This, then, allowed them to choose whether they wanted to instead teleport to a safe position nearby the staff or to not teleport at all.   
thumb|right|250px|The High Mage Alustriel frequently enjoyed her staffs ability to fly.
The staffs ability to create the Moonbridge was partially channeled through certain magical totems that were inlaid beneath the shores of the River Rauvin, but this was only because of the Moonbridges sheer size. In any other situation, a staff of Silverymoon can still create similar bridges, measuring  in width and  in length. Any larger a gap and the construct simply hovered, extended to its limit but firmly rooted, one end to the ground and the other to the middle of the air. Whether or not it reached the other side, any bridge created by a staff of Silverymoon provided steady ground on which anyone could walk.  
A staff of Silverymoon also automatically conferred protections akin to a greater spell immunity spell onto any and all who were touching it. The wielder of the staff could further induce a restoration effect, though this was not automatic, and could only be done once every tenday.
Each staff allowed its wielder to cast a selection of spells every day, though the number of times each could be used varied. Of the highest frequency was hold monster, which a staff of Silverymoon could cast six times in the span of one day. Thrice a day, such a staff could grant its wielder the ability to know alignment or fly, and was also capable of forming a wall of force, while twice a day, it had the power to animate rock or create a passwall. Only once every day was a staff of Silverymoon able to form a minor globe of invulnerability, a forcecage, chain lightning, or a dimension door. This last one was the most unique, as it was another effect that could be extended to anyone touching the staff at the same time, each one being transported wherever they willed, no matter if they all shared their target destination or not.
The history of the staffs of Silverymoon was almost as long as that of the High Mages themselves. Their legacy began in the  with the second of these ruling wizards, Aglanthol the Red, who made and enchanted his duskwood staff himself. From then on, each High Mage had their own, unique staff of Silverymoon made, and carried it throughout their time in office.
thumb|left|250px|After her departure from office, however, Taern received and wielded his very own staff.
The second of these staffs was held by the third High Mage, Ederan Nharimlur. However, forty-seven years into his rule, in the , his staff of Silverymoon was stolen by members of the Brotherhood of the Black Hand and never recovered. As of 1370 DR, the staff still remained in the crumbling ruins of Hellgate Keep.
The staff of the ninth High Mage, Orjalun, was left with his apprentice, Sepur, who would himself become the tenth ruler of Silverymoon. After Sepur left the Gem of the North only two years into his High Mageship, his staff of Silverymoon served as one of his few identifying remains in the Evermoors, where it lay shattered and surrounded by scorch marks. 
Once their respective High Mage was interred in the palaces crypt, most staffs were moved there as well, held in the grasp of a marble statue of their past owner. Even Orjaluns staff of Silverymoon rested above his empty bier.    
As of the mid-to-late 14 century, beyond the ones owned by Alustriel Silverhand and Taern Hornblade, the two High Mages at the time, there were also at least two more staffs of Silverymoon across the North. Both were hidden, one in the Harper base of Moongleam Tower, in nearby Everlund, and the other in Waterdeeps Blackstaff Tower. It was rumored, though unconfirmed, that even more could be found beyond the Savage North. Some suggested that they were located in various catacombs, but the more common claims said there was one at the Heralds Holdfast and another was kept by Lady Saharel of Spellgard.
* Rather than carrying atop it the Silvaeren symbol of the unicorns head, Ederan Nharimlurs stolen duskwood staff was crowned with the head of a cat.  It could cast spell turning and globe of invulnerability twice, as well as darkvision, alter self, and cats grace once, before needing to recharge.