Sugar was one of the major sweeteners consumed across the Realms and created using several types of plants.
In the days of the ancient Netheril, sugar maple trees were used to produce sugar, a technique learned from the elves. The maple-sugaring season took place in winter and it filled the forests with a sweet tangy aroma. Sugar cane was used in production of sugar in the Calim Empire as well as in the nations of Kara-Tur, including the islands of Wa, where it was created via boiling it into raw sugar or candy.
Sugar extracted from sugar beets was a common sweetener used in the Interior Faerûn, some of which was produced in Berdusk.
The Netherese made a snack food of sugared dates.
In the Calim Empire and later in Calimshan, cane sugar was used in marinating frogs legs, and sweetening mint tea.
In the Central Faerûn, Suzails nobles were known to have platters of breaded and fried, sugar-dusted soft-shelled crabs served to their guests, sugar-nuts were served as a snack, and tea was served alongside sugar pressed into small cubes. Sembia and its capital city of Selgaunt were known for its sugar-ice street vendors, beloved by children. And following introduction of cocoa from Maztica, the Great Mothers House in Berdusk began making chocolate fudge, sweetened with sugar.
Cormyrs cubbed sugar was a product of Amn, which, in turn, was stolen from Maztica following its colonization. Amnite sugar cubes were a popular and expensive novelty until House Dhostar imported an especially large quantities of sugar from Maztica, lowering its price dramatically in the .
Sugar received wide use in the Shining South. People of Halruaa consumed much sugared wine, popular even among youths, sugared pastries, and a street food called the Hangmans noose was generously dusted with finely ground sugar, allspice, cardamom and mace, and sugared figs and other fruits were a common snack food.
In the Border Kingdoms and in the city of Oeble, milk tea was sweetened with sugar.
The Utter East, folk liked fanciful mixed drinks, generously doctored with dyes and sugar-powder. They often were prepared and dispensed from bars in establishments like Donders Dancing Masques in Tharkar of the Free Cities of Parsanic.
On the Moonshae Isles, cakes were decorated with delicate sea-foam icing made of sugar and vanilla.
The folk of Al Qahara in Raurin used sugar mixed with four, eggs, and milk to make chocolate chip cookies.
People of the far-away Endless Wastes and Ra-Khati used chunks of sugar to sweeten their hot butter tea.
Zakharan cuisine used sugar sparingly for some dishes as chickens stuffed with mint and sugar.
Brown sugar was produced in the distant lands of Malatra and the Malatran Plateau. The sugar was traded in large rock-like hard clumps and was considered a valuable commodity.
*Lumped sugar was a treat to horses. A renowned Harper, Danilo Thann, carried sugar lumps to placate the horse of his companion, Arilyn Moonblade in the late 14 century DR.
*Harper agent Olive Ruskettle was an avid consumer of sugar. She added five cubed of the sweet substance to her tea.
*Neifion, the Lord of Bats, served platters of sugar-crusted toasts and miniature sugared pears in his castle, deep within the Feywild.
*Samas Kul, a zulkir from Thay, was an avid eater of sweets covered in simple sugar glaze in the late 14 century DR.