Greater 
The tapal, and the larger greater tapal, was a weapon that was developed by tritons.
The one-handed tapal was a long blade with an arcing shape, reminiscent of an angular fishermans hook though wider and with a razor-sharp outer edge and two handles inside the arc. When gripped, the hand was protected and the unequal-length blades lay along the forearm and nearly to the shoulders.
The greater tapal was larger and wielded in two hands, with a chevron-shaped blade and two handles.
The tapal could be considered a combination of a dagger, spear, and longsword, able to be moved quickly to stab or slash without being slowed by water resistance and with little physical effort.
The shorter, hook-like end of the arc was meant to stay near the body. Held with arms extended, the long curving edge and rounded front point were used by tritons to slash at enemies while swimming past them. The front arc, a wide and massive tip, could also be thrust like a dagger.
Alternatively, the tapal could be flipped so that the long end pointed forward, with the secondary handle towards the middle allowing it to be gripped with two hands. In this way, it could be used similarly to a spear.
Tapals were made at undersea hydrothermal vents, which were hot enough for tritons to smelt metals and minerals underwater. They were carved from an unknown crystalline material and made specifically for each triton warrior. The techniques were a closely guarded secret of their species.
right|Upper left a triton slashed with a tapal at some foes.
They were an ancient weapon developed by the tritons. A tapal was presented to a triton when an individual became an adult. Tapals often became family heirlooms and older tapals came to bear great magical enchantments.
Tapals were a favored weapon of tritons, but not so much as to replace the ubiquitous trident. They were only ever made and used by tritons, They were also used by Dukars who followed the Tapal Path, which actually granted the power to grow a coral from their knuckles and forearm in the form of a tapal. While greater tapals were in existence, they were quite rare.
Regardless, other undersea races were curious about tapals and started to borrow their design for their own weapons in the mid–14 century DR.
Tapals were rarely used or seen above the surface of the sea.
Some notable artifact tapals are
* Grandmasters Tapal, which granted Dukar with the powers of all their orders
* Jhiarl, or the Emerald Tapal and "Elfkiller", an evil and sentient blade formed from a solid current and
* Luuvamtar, called "the Krakens Bane", a starmetal blade once wielded by the military leader of the Triton Protectorate of Vuuvax.
The Colossus of Dukar in Myth Nantar, a  statue that commemorated the triton founder of that order, held an enormous tapal high over his head.