The Black Satchel was an enchanted doctors bag that could dispense healing at a great price, created by Orne the Bloody before his disposal at the hands of the Harpers.
The Black Satchel appeared as an ordinary doctors satchel, virtually indistinguishable from many other mundane items of the same nature. However, this magic item was the perversion of the healing profession. Sensitive creatures could detect faint evil radiation emitted from the satchel.
A necromancer who possessed the bag could use it to cast several curative spells once per day each. The caster needed to possess skills and arcane prowess to access the individual spells. These magics were remove blindness or deafness, remove disease, cure serious wounds, neutralize poison, cure critical wounds, raise dead, heal, regenerate, and resurrection. However, these powers did not come for free. After casting these spells, the evil item demanded tithe the stronger the spell was, the more death it required. The Black Satchel commanded its owner to commit one or more murders per day as a payment for the healing magics. The victim had to be an intelligent humanoid creature. The satchel allowed the murders to be done at a rate of one per day. If the bag owner failed to commit murders after using the items healing magics, the Black Satchel drained the life out of them, leaving behind just an emaciated husk.
If a goodly creature was bold enough to harness the Black Satchels powers, the item immediately corrupted them, turning their souls dark and evil. In some cases, creatures who venerated good were greatly weakened after using the satchel.
The Black Satchel belonged to Orne the Bloody, a notorious villainous necromancer enemy of the Harpers. Those Who Harp pursued Orne for almost twenty years until the villain was brought to justice. Many magic items were recovered, including the Satchel. The Black Satchel was hidden away in one of many secret Harper vaults. Being a bardic organization, unwilling to destroy knowledge, Harpers elected to hide the wondrous items and keep them under lock and key.