Tuern, Trackless Sea
The White Dragon Mask was one of the five dragon masks that carried the blessings of Tiamat in the efforts of the reformed Cult of the Dragon to summon her to Toril. It was worn by Wyrmspeaker Varramzord for a time, before being lost to the cult.
The White Dragon Mask had a polished white surface that was highlighted with specks of pale blue, and featured the cranial crest often associated with white dragons.
The wearer of the White Dragon Mask gained a natural resistance to magical and mundane coldness, along with protection from physical harm. 
Whenever they became severely hurt in battle, any attack they made was imbued with magical cold energy, similar to that of a white dragons breath. The wearer was also granted darkvision and blindsight, along with an the understanding of the Draconic language.
The main feature of the White Dragon Mask, that was shared by all of the dragon masks, was its ability to transform its wearer into a wyrmspeaker. These individuals were granted thought processes similar to those possessed by dragons and granted minimal influence over their behaviors.
When two or more of the masks were brought together, they joined together as the Mask of the Dragon Queen, which combined their respective properties and granted them each upon the wearer. Addition pieces of the five other dragon masks could later be added as well. This valuable artifact was the essential piece needed to complete the ritual that could free Tiamat from the Nine Hells.
As of the 1480s DR, the White Dragon Mask remained in the possession of the Cult of the Dragon, originally bestowed upon Wyrmspeaker Varram by the cults leader Severin Silrajin. The decision that Varram was made wyrmspeaker over his rival Wearer of Purple Talis the White caused some strife within the Dragon Cults leadership.
At some point, the Varram and the White Dragon Mask made their way to the city of Neverwinter. When red dragons assailed the city, following the death of one of the three dragon overlords of Tuern, the mask was stolen by the Zhentarim agent Ratshadow, and stashed at the Ulbrinter Villa in Waterdeep.
Eventually, agents of the Cult of the Dragon broke into the Ulbrinter noble villa, slew Lord Arthagast Ulbrinter and recovered the White Dragon Mask for their master once again. While gazing into the divination pool within Diderius Tomb, Varram witnessed the masks recovery by his fellow dragon cultists, yet remained in hiding.