Winged Blight was a massive enchanted greatsword from the land of Mulhorand in the Old Empires.
Winged Blight was a huge weapon that appeared to have been created to be wielded by someone of great strength. Its design was elegant yet repulsive. It was made out of carved human bone and coated in metal with its hilt and scabbard wrapped in tanned human leather.
The sword possessed a +1 enchantment. It also was a human bane that dealt devastating damage to human targets, similar to a +3 enchantment.
Winged Blights history was shrouded in mystery. However, stories of its origins came from the nation of Mulhorand, told by nobles of the land. These stories appeared several generations before the early 14 century DR. The legend said that when a human woman gave birth to a daughter while being enslaved, she prayed for guidance during a full moon to an ancient pharaoh Tyrish. If Tyrish heeded her prayers, she received a stiletto floating down from the sky. The woman then used the divine knife to disfigure her newborns face. After it was done, the stiletto grew in size very slightly and disappeared back into the night sky. Such children came to be known as "marked" and deemed undesirable by the slavers. The "marked" were allowed to purchase their freedom because of how little value they were perceived to have. Even though the "marked" girls avoided the horrors of slavery, their facial scars later healed and disappeared, unlike the emotional ones.
Judging by the size of Winged Blight by the 14 century DR, the "stiletto" was used countless times, enlarging it to the size of a massive greatsword. In the , the Hulhorandi blade was wielded by a cruel human-hating half blue dragon named Sherincal in service of the Legion of the Chimera, seeking to wipe the Ten Towns of Icewind Dale off the face of Toril. Eventually, the Legion of the Chimera became opposed by a formidable group of adventuring mercenaries from the city of Targos who slew Sherincal in battle, leaving Winged Blight without its half-dragon master.