| school3e      = 
| casterlevel3e = 
| itemlevel3e   = 
| value3e       = 2,000 gp
| weight3e      = 
| refs3e        = 
The Wyrmbane Helm was an enchanted helmet created to battle blue dragons. Its power could be increased by a wielder who thoroughly attuned to it.
The helmet was a plain blue steel helmet with a young dragons skull set on it. It smelled faintly of ozone, and made the wielders attacks and spells blaze with blue sparks.
At its most basic, the helmet granted a minor resistance to electricity.
It unlocked a number of powers through a thorough attunement, growing in power to match its wielder to unlock its least powers, the user had to slay a dragon whose might was a match for them in single combat. This granted the user the power to employ the cause fear spell five times a day, a boost to their ability to shrug off fear effects themselves, and eventually the ability to cast lightning bolt.
Those who performed a ritual to scar their faces with a dragons tooth in the home of a great wyrm were granted other spells, as soon as their own personal power grew sufficiently their every attack grew dangerous to dragons, they gained blindsense, and their own force of personality was boosted by the helm. Those who were on the verge of unlocking its final powers gained the ability to boost their own spells destructive power.
Those who honored Tiphera tir-Yseldre at her grave were able to unlock the final tier of power in the helm they gained a frightful presence, became immune to electricity, had their strength boosted by the article, and finally, as its ultimate power, became able to breathe lightning as an adult blue dragon.
The helmet was created by Tiphera tir-Yseldre of Solon. After the blue dragon Sturykkazynarr slew her family while she was studying magic and the sword at the capital, she set out to slay one of his brood, Vurkkanyzarr. She set the younger dragons skull on a helmet as a challenge to the great wyrm. She became a dragonslayer, and his sworn enemy.
After she died fighting the great wyrm, she was interred with her helmet on the orders of King Andizen. The helmet went missing from her grave some time after, and was wielded by a number of users afterwards.
* Tiphera tir-Yseldre