Yuan-ti grafts were serpentine body parts attached ("grafted") to the body of another corporeal creature or person.
These grafts were most often applied by yuan-ti to their humanoid cultists and servants in order to enhance their usefulness. and creatures who received yuan-ti grafts were considered a form of serpentfolk.
Some yuan-ti would also seek grafts for themselves, viewing them as ways to immediately better themselves and improve their social standing among their peers. Some yuan-ti considered the added power that came with grafting to be a way of honoring their god Sseth, and thus disdained those "lazy" yuan-ti who forewent such grafts. In some cases, Sseth was said to bestow grafts directly onto his followers in exchange for a blood sacrifice.
Yuan-ti grafts could not be reattached if removed from the recipient creature.
The knowledge of how to attach these grafts was known only to the yuan-ti themselves, and some experimented with grafting flesh onto their captives. The process required familiarity with healing as well as specialized knowledge of the magic for grafting flesh to another creature. Yuan-ti anathema could create grafts more quickly than others.
Among yuan-ti seeking to raise their profiles, yuan-ti purebloods were the most likely to pursue grafts, although they preferred augmentations that could be concealed so as to maintain their outwardly human disguises. Yuan-ti anathemas were the most common bestowers of yuan-ti grafting given that the magic came easily to them, while other yuan-ti who worked closely with humanoid agents were the next most likely to learn how to graft. Grafting techniques were practiced by senior members of House Extaminos, and many members were known to augment themselves with grafted "serpent arms" which they kept coiled around themselves beneath their clothing, thus giving an impression of great girth.
In the mid-to-late 14 century DR, a yuan-ti anathema known as Phelriss grafted arms onto the dark naga progeny of Calliope, but allowed rumors to spread that they had hatched with these arms.
250px|A yuan-ti pureblood fang of Sseth with a serpent arm.
Added tail
 A serpentine tail was appended to the recipients tailbone, enhancing its balance and its swimming ability.
Poison fangs
 Long and sharp fangs were grafted into the recipients mouth that could be used to deliver a venomous bite.
Replacement tail
 A serpentine tail completely replaced the recipients lower limbs, giving them snake-like climbing and swimming abilities as well as the ability to constrict an enemy.
Scaly skin
 The recipient received a graft of scaly yuan-ti skin, which served as permanent armor.
Serpent arm
 The recipient received a long, flexible limb ending in the head of a venomous snake.