Parsley was a species of edible fragrant herb that received wide culinary usage across Faerûn. and beyond.
Parsley was cultivated for culinary use as far as the herb gardens of the hot lands of Zakhara.
A variety of elven blue-leaved parsley in Waterdeep was brought up and sold from Skullport by its drow merchants, but some locals confused that herb with parsley exported from Secomber.
Some mages knew an evocation spell that could create herbs and spices. This spell, spice, could conjure parsley, along with many other edible flavorings.
In the City of Splendors, parsley was often used as garnish. The Inn of the Dripping Dagger offered platters of bacon and bread rolls served on a bed of parsley. The well-known dish called Dragon Soup included parsley among its ingredients. Waterdhavian-based shops – Auroras Emporium and Auroras Whole Realms Catalogue, both offered parsley for sale among the common seasonings as well as parsley-flavored honey.
In Deepingdale, parsley and butter were used to cook carrots, such as by Korvan, a cook of The Rising Moon in the mid–14 century DR. In Tasseldale and Battledale, parsley was sometimes used in preparing broiled rabbit with brandy and plum sauce. Archenbridges tavern called the Bridge and Bow offered bread, topped with herbed melted cheese and parsley butter to its guests. A very impressive dish called stuffed turkey pie, served at The Watchful Eye in Essembra, included parsley among its ingredients. Lastly, Boar and Chestnut Deep Pot, that was served at The Fall of Stars restaurant in Harrowdale, was made using parsley.
In Silverymoon, parsley-and-egg fingertarts were a common dish served at eveningfeasts. Parsley and garlic butter was a popular food from the village of Amphail. Further inland, the Maid of the Moors eatery in the village of Mornbryns Shield served a fresh garden salad that included parsley among its many ingredients. The herb was also eaten in Westbridge, where it was used to flavor cream at The Wemic Comes to Westbridge restaurant. Beldars Rest inn found in the village of Yartar prepared generously herbed potatoes, fried and topped with a white sauce of chives, sour cream, and parsley. And the city of Neverwinters own Moonstone Mask served parsley-and-mint chicken broth.
Other places along the Sword Coast North where parsley was consumed included The Singing Sprite inn in Secomber, where flatbreads were topped with chopped greens and a sauce of cooked leeks, garlic, parsley vinegar, and beaten egg yolks.
Marsemban tarts were bite-sized pastries made with diced salmon and crab, sauced with a mix of almond milk, wine, leeks, and persimmons, all topped with parsley and potato. Blentras Oysters and Wild Rice in Mushroom Soup, served at the Platter of Plenty in Marsember also included a handful of parsley per recipe. In Arabel, garlic-and-parsley butter was one of the staples of the Hungry Man eatery. And The Barons Bottle tavern in Gladehap cooked up rabbit patè and topped it with chopped parsley and thyme to order.
The Old Wheel in Crimmor used parsley and fried ground-moss for a culinary presentation of soft-boiled quail eggs for its guests. The guest accommodations in Arnise Hold, just outside of Athkatla, offered parsley flavored water to its visitors. While The Board Laid Bare in Asbravn used parsley mostly as garnish.
In the neighboring nation of Tethyr, the Stag Triumphant, in the town of Mosstone, served its grand namesake dish – stag triumphant, atop several bucketfuls of parsley.
The temple and monastery of Chauntea in Veltalar brewed strong ale using fermented parsley, by some accords.
Elminster Aumar was partial to Marsemban dark spreads of almond butter, smeared on loaves of bread and sprinkled with parsley, chopped garlic, and dill.
Elven cuisine often used parsley along with many other, usually raw, vegetables.
Some believed that parsley possessed blood-purifying properties.