| trunkdiameter = 
| leaftype      = 
| leafcolor     = dusty green with a narrow band of yellow around their margins
| flowercolor   = Blood-red
| color         = 
| stemcolor     = 
| distinctions  = 
| appearrefs    = 
| first         = 
| based         = 
A vampire cactus was a species of deep desert cacti that supplemented their need for water by draining the blood of warm-blooded creatures.
These cacti greatly resembled century plants, sporting twelve  fleshy leaves that drooped towards the ground and were each tipped with  long, white needle-sharp points. The leaves were dusty green in coloration, with a narrow band of yellow around their margins. At the core of the cacti was a singular, golden yellow spike, that rose to a height of . Combined with the drooping of the flowers, this made the main body of a vampire cactus measure  tall. Once every midsummer, the central spike of a vampire cactus would bloom a small, blood-red flower at its tip. Once pollinated, this flower would give way to a small blood-red fruit.
Vampire cacti were rooted down to a singular spot, but were capable of moving their leaves quite rapidly. Any damaged or severed leaf could be regrown within a period of 2 to 5 days, but destruction of its core was fatal.
These cacti evolved a rather conductive root system, due to often being struck by lightning. This made them generally immune to harm from lightning or electrical base attacks, as any unleashed upon them would simply be grounded into the desert floor, though like most plants they were quite vulnerable to fire. Additionally, the dusty nature of their leaves was an adaptation made to slow the process of evaporation and they evolved to produce singular blooms so as to minimize water loss.
Vampire cacti preyed upon other creatures by shooting their needles, which could go out as far as . They could fire all twelve of their needles simultaneously, but could direct no more than six at a single target. These needles remained attached to the plant by thick, rubbery threads unwound from within the leaves, and transported the blood they drained through them. If a fired needle didnt penetrate anything it would be reeled back in. They would also be reeled back in if targeted prey perished or once the cactus was satiated. Once satiated, a vampire cactus would remain unhostile towards living creatures for a period of 48 hours.
They could be found on the world of Oerth often found surrounded by the skeletons of their past victims. Their seeds were often distributed through a region by means of migratory birds that had consumed their midsummer fruit.
The flesh of a vampire cactus was far too tough and bitter in texture for most animals to consume. By contrast, their fruit was quite moist and had a sweet taste to it that was delectable to most birds.
Sometime around 1367 DR, a holy slayer by the name of Farid al Tigrar was tasked by Diyab al Kaban with assassinating with Hakim ibn Rashad. To this end he procured various types of desert animals and plants, secured them within a tapestry of folded existence, and arranged for a merchant-rogue to sell that tapestry to Hakim when he next visited the bazaar in the city of Qadib. Among those plants procured for this assassination was a vampire cactus.