The Batship was an enormous cursed bat-shaped spelljammer that roamed the Tears of Selûne.
The Batship could assume two configurations a flight mode, in which it looked like a regular ship, and a battle mode, in which it curled into an attack posture, feet first. The ship could attack with its claws, its tail, its breath weapon, or its bite, all controlled by the helmsman. It also possessed four ballistae that could be manned by a crew.
The unique design of the ship allowed it to act as an extension of its helmsmans body. Its spelljamming helm mimicked the helmsmans movements and transmitted back sensory information. The ship could be piloted in this way by a single individual. This great maneuverability, together with the ships numerous magical defenses, made it a terrifying sight. It was known for terrorizing merchants and adventurers within the Tears of Selûne and other areas of Realmspace.
The ship also carried a variety of curses. An individual boarding the ship risked being charmed into becoming a member of its crew. The helm could only be accessed via a wish spell, and, once it became occupied, the only way for the helmsman to leave was via another wish cast by someone outside. The occupant became immortal but sense-deprived, only able to sense what the ship provided, and also incapable of committing suicide.
The Batship in battle mode tearing through a tradesman.
The Batship was created by a powerful wizard called Sarelk
Sarelk followed the ship to Realmspace and settled on Lumbe, the second moon of HCatha, to research a way to free his wife from the ships helm.
By the mid-14 century DR, the Batships lair was located in the Cave, an asteroid in the Tears of Selûne, near the center of the cluster. It was there that the ship and its crew stored its plunder before selling it.
During its 700-year-long voyage to Realmspace, the ship reportedly visited Krynnspace as well.
* Burnayette Skyansdanya, a powerful wizard who had been trapped by the ships helm since the 5 century DR.