The Vigilant was a transport ship that belonged to the Mercantile House of Samargol, and later, a towering shipwreck on Omgars Teeth in the Samar Bay.
350x350px
In the , Captain Lastri Kassireh sailed the Vigilant for the Mercantile House of Samargol, the merchant organization ran by SaSani. The vessel carried trade goods and passengers between the Sword Coast to the Chultan nation of Samarach. On a fateful journey of 1374 DR, the ship carried a famed writer Volothamp Geddarm who did business with Lady SaSani, her aide Luaire Farwander, and a band of adventurers. The voyage was cursed with bad luck and numerous strange occurrences. Food supplies were mysteriously spoiled, freshwater barrels were ruptured, one of the crew – Kellen got drunk and died overboard, Volo almost got poisoned, and new ropes became frayed. All of these occurrences aboard the Vigilant were used by Luaire Farwander, secretly a yuan-ti saboteur and a cultist of the interloper deity Zehir.
thumb|A map showing the location of the wreck on Omgars Teeth, across the bay from the 285x285px
Close to the shores of Samarach, the ships ill luck culminated in a dark and powerful storm. Captain Kassireh knew that the Vigilant was a strong boat and could weather even the direst whim of Umberlee. When the storm hit, the second mate Nerul grabbed the wheel, but another sabotage became obvious – the ships wheel was stuck. The ship was fiercely battered in the storm, Captain Kassireh was knocked out and tossed overboard, many of the sailors and passengers perished, while a group of adventurers and Volo nagged to board a boat and row to Omgars Teeths shores.
The Vigilants hull was cracked over perilous reefs, and jagged rocks of Omgars Teeth and its wreck was washed ashore, rising  above the beach trees and sands. First mate Kadjin and the Captain promptly were captured by a gang of hungry cannibal Batiri goblins while surviving adventurers and sailors clashed with a warband of Batiri on the beach.
Volothamp Geddarm recorded the fate of the Vigilant in the book titled Volos Guide to the Serpent Kingdoms, written and released after his return to the Sword Coast.