Anteos Villa was the family estate of the Waterdhavian noble house Anteos.
|thumb|273px|The location of Anteos Villa (labeled 3) on a circa 1368 DR map.
The Anteos Villa was located in the North Ward of Waterdeep,
Like many Waterdhavian villas in the North Ward, this was a walled estate featuring a landscaped gardenEvidence of this information can be seen in how the villa is depicted on maps. with elaborate adornments. It also featured a gazebo. Inside the walls of the estate were two high-quality buildings that stood two stories and one story tall, these being the mansion proper and a guesthouse respectively.
In the , Lord Hamar Anteos had an affair with Kyara Ruldegost, a young Tethyrian woman distantly related to the Ruldegost clan. The lord of that clan at the time, the ill-tempered Econ Ruldegost, was incensed by the matter that he engaged Hamar in a duel and lost his life. With his dying breath he laid a curse upon House Anteos, proclaiming that they would be, "...heirless until they recognize and accept the ruin they have done me and mine."
Soon after the death of Lord Econ, the couple bore a daughter. Later that year, Kyara and her baby would be murdered by "brigands" on their way to a picnic being hosted on a plot of land owned by House Anteos near Westwood. Rather than a proper burial, their bodies would be dumped into the Stump Bog.
From that day forward Kyaras ghost haunted the Anteos Villa, becoming one of the strongest and most persistent hauntings of any villa in the city. She appeared each night, manifesting in the mansions every window and open external doorway. She was said to appear with a bloody and muddy dress, a tear-stained face, and clutching a blue-faced baby whose vacant eyes were piercing.
After only twelve years, Kyaras haunting drove Lord Hamar to such heights of madness that he died in a fit of screaming. However, even with his death her haunting continued, preventing the members of House Anteos from sleeping well. Over time, Kyaras ghost became known by Waterdhavians as the "Crying Girl."