The infamous Arenas of Blood, also known as the Blood Arenas, were a pair of identical gladiatorial arenas located in the city of Manshaka in Calimshan.
One of the Arenas was located in the northeastern drudach of the northwestern sabban of the city the other was found in the southern drudach (south of Drudach Street) of the northeastern sabban.
The Arenas were large, circular structures, walled all around and with two levels of stands for spectators. The high walls around the arena bore banners and circular emblems depicting downward-pointing daggers. Huge gates led down to the dungeons beneath.
thumb|right|The dungeons were big enough to hold a good-sized dragon.
Beneath each Arena was a labyrinth of passages and tunnels intended to prevent escape, in addition to 100 guards. These dungeons were such a maze that it took the gladiator Vajra two years to memorize them before she made good her escape. Since that time, by 1357 DR, a blue dragon was kept in the dungeons as a guardian, though it was slain that year.
thumb|left|Vajra battling a troll as a hungry otyugh waits to devour the loser.
As of 1370 DR, each Blood Arena held five shows per day for three djenayin per show or one djenarba for the whole day. The matches were almost always to the death. An exception was if a match was set up to settle a political matter rather than for entertainment.
The Manshaka city council focused largely on maintaining the Arenas of Blood, and openly encouraged betting on the fights, as these were a primary source of tax revenue. All matches generated huge sums of money from bets. In fact, Manshaka was second only to Calimport as a gambling center because of the Arenas. On an average day, the combined attendance of both arenas was over 10,000 spectators, and this number increased to 14,000 in the winter months when it was cooler.
In the time of their existence, only two gladiators had ever escaped the Arenas of Blood&mdashVajra Valmeyjar and Jhalarn.
Vajra was a 12-year-old Tethyrian slave of Pasha Abon Duum, placed with his stable of gladiators at the Arena of Blood. There she learned the arts of the sword, spear, and net and became the most accomplished of Duums stable. She slew creatures such as a bugbear and a reptilian, and the crowds roared her name, but she never responded. She found a friend in a fellow gladiator, Salabak.  However, after ten years, she had had enough and wanted out. Escaping, she seriously wounded several of Duums best fighters and escaped from the labyrinth of corridors below the arena and into freedom. However, Abon Duum sent many bounty hunters after her, seeking to punish and reclaim his champion gladiator, though she remained free by 1357 DR.
thumb|right|An manticore appearing to attack Abon Duum in the stands.
Finally, in the Year of the Prince, 1357 DR, Salabak did just that, Meanwhile, Vajra escaped into the tunnels beneath the Arena, where she battled the blue dragon guardian. The Catlord came to her aid, slaying the dragon, whose death throes collapsed part of the roof and opened a hole in the outer wall.
The largest event ever held in the Arenas was the Great Games. They were held in Hammer of 1370 DR on the last tenday and resulted in the deaths of over 3,000 gladiators and 5,000 wild animals and monsters as the crowds cheered on. During the Great Games, a spellcaster disguised as a slave appeared and dissolved one of the walls with magic. He was quickly killed by arrows from the guards, but a pack of dire wolves did escape and attacked the audience.
thumb|right|The golden manacle of a Blood Arena gladiator could fill any thug with fear.
Each Arena had pens for over 30 monsters and cells for between 50 and 100 humanoid gladiators. Both free folk and slaves fought in the Arenas.
Champion gladiators wore a special golden manacle bearing the symbol of a jawless skull on one side and a dagger on the other. Those who recognized it knew they were in the presence of a deadly warrior. Champions also tended to wear other skull emblems, such as an earring or belt-buckle.In "Shackles of the Past", page 13, Vajra says "Every day I awaken to see this slaves manacle and it reminds me that I have never been free...", possibly implying the manacle cannot be removed. Vajra and Salabak are always depicted wearing their manacles.
A number of otyughs were kept behind bars beside the arena. They were used to dispose of the dead, but Vajra found they seized the living readily enough.