The Beggars Palaces was the collective name for the two larger of the three ancient ziggurats that rose above the Old City slums of Port Nyanzaru, Chult.
The main road into the Old City from the walled sections of Port Nyanzaru passed between the two Beggars Palaces, with the gate to the Merchants Ward just north of them and the Executioners Run just south. 
The Beggars Palaces were crumbling ruins covered in vines. The shops and tenements of the Old City surrounded and climbed the Palaces, with bamboo structures densely crammed onto the ziggurat terraces. while the higher terraces were cleaner and less crowded than the lower ones. A wide wooden bridge connected the upper levels of the two pyramids. 
Catacombs extended beneath the ziggurats, some of which could be accessed via a secret passage in the citys refuse pit. Some of these catacombs included trapped rooms and ritual chambers These areas were adorned with carvings ranging from wavy lines and circular patterns (which appeared to date to the same time period as some of the tunnels beneath the citys Harbor Ward) to images of humans hunting and sacrificing other humans to dark gods.
Beneath the eastern ziggurat was a small tomb in which its architects had been interred, with walls adorned with carvings of Chultan laborers building the tomb. Access to this tomb was located at the ziggurats western corner and was hidden behind a stack of crates in a ramshackle marketplace.
The Beggars Palaces were associated with the beggar princes criminals who wielded more power in the Old City than did Port Nyanzarus merchant princes.
In times of attack, the interiors of the Beggars Palaces served as places of shelter for the people of the Old City.
By the late 15 century DR, the civilization that had built the Beggars Palaces was long-forgotten, and the catacombs beneath them had been sealed for many years. It was believed that the ancient kings who had commissioned the ziggurats had buried the architects alive to serve them in death.
While not traditionally considered to be one of the Beggars Palaces, the third and smallest of the Old Citys ziggurats came to be the base of operations for the beggar prince Pock-Marked Po.
Following the end of the death curse, a wight necromancer named Jaru Tasca took up residence in the catacombs beneath the Beggars Palaces, and plotted to use a piece of the Cyst&mdasha powerful necromantic mass of flesh&mdashto transform Port Nyanzarus residents and adventurers into undead. Her minions soon threatened the Old City.