Blackstaff Tower (previously Arunsun Tower renamed by Khelben in 1322 DR) was the home of Khelben "Blackstaff" Arunsun in Waterdeep as well as of his successors to the title of Blackstaff.
Blackstaff Towers main entrance was on Swords Street. There was also an apprentices gate, through which apprentices could gain access by touching the gate with a left palm. The tower was surrounded by a  wall.
The towers exterior walkway.
The tower appeared to be made out of smooth black stone, with no windows or doors. From the outside, the structure appeared to be a three-story stone tower, but inside, there were at least a dozen more levels, and some of these could only be reached by magical means. Everything connected to the central stairwell, although magical passwords were required to transport to certain areas of this stairwell. The three levels visible from the outside were all freely accessible via simply using the stairs. 
The towers stairwell.
Rooms were connected to the central stairwell and entry hall, which was full of floating doors and arches. Many alcoves and shelves covered the walls of the stairwell, displaying magical items and artifacts, and although they seemed unprotected, a command word was needed to remove any of them. The items changed on a regular basis, so returning to the same stairwell on another day might result in seeing different items. Leaving the dormitories without issuing a command word would lead to the second levels stairwell. Saying the command word nhurlaen in the stairwell took one to the study.
On the top floor of the tower was a study and a scrying chamber. There was also a parlor where Khelben displayed his art. In the library was one-way dimensional door to Candlekeep (the other side of the door led to Jesters Court nearby). As of 1374 DR, the towers entry chamber contained a wardrobe that Khelben was able to use to access almost any closet in the tower. In the towers kitchen, Khelben liked to serve cups of roasted chicory.
FileDemon Stone concept Blackstaff Tower side room.jpg|A side room.
FileDemon Stone concept Blackstaff Tower reading room.jpg|The towers reading room.
FileDemon Stone concept Blackstaff Tower1.jpg|Another room of Khelben.
FileDemon Stone concept Blackstaff Tower apothecary.jpg|The towers apothecary.
Tunnels linked the towers basement to Piergeirons Palace and other locations in Waterdeep, which could be accessed by uttering the command word vhuarm. One such tunnel could be accessed at Northspur Rock on Northspur Landing on the Talltumble Stairs in Mountainside.
In 1361 DR, Danilo Thann moved the elfgate portal to Evermeet to Laerals chambers in order to facilitate more quality time between her and Khelben.
The towers library.
The tower contained The Fanged Tome of Lykanthus Szar, The Annals Adamarus, and Alaundos Loop. The elfgate to Evermeet (created by Amnestria with Arilyns moonblade) was located in Laerals chambers after 1361 DR.