Bloodgate Keep was a Red Wizard fortress built on top of an ancient Netherese temple to the Princes of Elemental Evil.
Bloodgate Keep was located in the Forlorn Hills, northeast of Daggerford.
Bloodgate Keep was defended by the powerful Red Wizards, but with inside help it was possible to access the elemental nodes via teleportation circles.
The fortress itself consisted of an academy, and below it, a nexus of portals leading to four elemental nodes, each one containing an elemental key that kept the nodes stable.
The temple containing the four elemental portals were constructed by a cult dedicated to the Princes of Elemental Evil, consisting of Netherese nobles led by Lord Reynard Ambergul. Ambergul had become obsessed with the worship of Elemental Evil after he came into possession of a scroll describing the four Princes. A seductive and influential man, his new cult attracted quite a bit of interest and attention within Netherese society. 
When the nobles could no longer avoid unwanted attention to their endeavors, they disbanded the cult, and sealed the temple with four elemental Keys. The keys themselves where hidden away within at least three altars dedicated to each Prince within the estates of prominent members of the cult Ambergul Estate, Floshin Manor, and Cromms Hold. 
Around 1485 DR, The Red Wizard Tarul Var was planning to invade the Sword Coast via the Bloodgate, a portal that was being constructed in the portal nexus underneath the Keep.
Each elemental node was a demiplane that channeled elemental power, which the Red Wizards used to reestablish the connection of an ancient elven portal network based in the House of Long Silences in Ardeep Forest. Using the combination of Evil Elemental power and blood sacrifice, the portal network could be rewired to connect Thay to the Sword Coast through the newly constructed Bloodgate.  
In the , Bloodgate Keep was assaulted, and the Bloodgate closed, with the help of Sir Isteval and Shalendra Floshin, among others.
* Tarul Var A trusted lich servant of Szass Tam, in charge of constructing the Bloodgate.
* Arvik Zaltos A Red Wizard tasked with acquiring the elemental keys.
* Mennek Ariz A Red Wizard enchanter working as a designer of the Bloodgate Nexus.