Blood of the Vine was a shoddy tavern in the village of Barovia, in the Domain of Dread of the same name.
This building measured around  in total. Outside of it hung a sign bearing the name of the establishment.
The taverns central lounge contained a blazing hearth. Every door featured a stout bar that could be swung down to bar it against forceful intrusion. And additionally, its backrooms and upper rooms acted as guestrooms, with chimneys poking out from each of them.
The establishment overall was lacking in luxuries, but felt as comfortable as any home.
Befitting its name, this tavern primarily offered its patrons wine. Selling a small glass for a single copper piece and a pitcher of wine for a single silver piece. Food on offer included ale, stews, round loaves of dark nut bread, and strong yellow-green cheeses. These foods were all rather simple and cheap, but thickly spiced compared to most food one would find in Barovia.
Beyond food the tavern offered lodgings, though the sale of food outstripped these so much that the owners didnt see fit to call themselves an inn. These were primarily utilized by weary travelers far from home or those who were temporarily apart from their family for whatever reason.
The tavern acted as a neutral meeting ground for vistani to gossip, trade, and pursue hobbies that their family members would disapprove of, such as gambling. Around night time local minstrels would make their presence, serenading patrons with tragic ballads.
The tavern was owned by three vistani sisters named Alenka, Mirabel, and Sorvia. They all saw to it that visitors paid their tabs. The bar itself was tended by a man named Arik Lorensk.
At some point in the taverns history a traveler from late-15 century DR Toril, Volothamp Geddarm, came barging in after sprinting there on the recommendation of Ezmerelda dAvenir. While there he took time to note down aspects of the tavern and its atmosphere before speaking with Arik, who he mistook to be its owner. From Arik the man was regaled with the layout of the domain Barovia, given the names of the many notable locations one could find within it.
After informing Arik that he had been recommended the tavern by Ezmerelda, he suggested to Volo that he seek out another newcomer, a half-elf bard named Rictavio that resided in the village of Vallaki across Lake Baratok. Intrigued by his words, Volo stayed the night and headed out in search of Rictavio the next morning.
At some point a group of adventurers from Toril, who had been helping the Harpells track down a missing owlbear, wandered into Barovia and took shelter in the tavern against the hordes of monsters chasing after them. Therein they fought against bats, giant rats, and a minotaur skeleton.