Blue Dolphin was a tavern in the city of Ravens Bluff in the Vast owned and operated by Jonathon Morningmist, a goodly elf who was secretly a vampire.
It was located near the wharves of Ravens Bluff,
The taverns sign was a bright blue-painted silhouette of a dolphin, but the paint had faded and peeled with time. The façade looked run-down.
The taverns interior was best described as dark and rustic. Looking in from the narrow entrance, the bar was on the left side, with tables on the right. The seating area consisted of several raised platforms, or "steps", the highest of which was about  tall. The tables and bar stools were shorter on the higher platforms, so all patrons were seated at roughly the same height.
The bar was well-worn, and behind it was mounted a stuffed dolphin with a glass eye. Jonathon kept a magic mirror in the establishment, which was enchanted so that he would cast a reflection in it despite his vampiric nature.
A popular hang-out for adventurers and sailors, the Blue Dolphin was a great place to hear tall tales and adventuring rumors.
Fine foods and spirits could be had here, but also lumpy fish stew and cheap beer.
Jonathon Morningmist established the Blue Dolphin with funds he had accumulated from centuries of preying on mortals with his brother Jeremiah&mdashwho was also a vampire. During one of the brothers adventures, Jonathon had accidentally donned a helm of opposite alignment, forever changing his moral outlook on life away from evil. The brothers could not see eye to eye after this, and so they parted ways, with Jonathon settling in Ravens Bluff.
But Jeremiah remained rather miffed at his brother, so he eventually followed him to Ravens Bluff and started feasting on Jonathons patrons.
The owner, Jonathon, lived in a room above the tavern proper. He had a tendency to magically charm evil female thieves into serving as his barmaids, hoping to influence them into changing their ways. Beggars were often allowed to spend the night in the tavern.