Castle Nowhere was a ruined castle in Evernight, the accursed city in the Shadowfell that was a dark reflection of Neverwinter. Even the ghoulish undead inhabitants of Evernight considered the castle to be haunted.
Castle Nowhere was located at the same spot in Evernight as was Castle Never in Neverwinter, and so the two were considered equivalents or analogues of each other. However, more often than not, Castle Nowhere was not present as it would vanish for all but a few days out of every tenday. No one knew whether it moved to another location or simply ceased to exist during these periods, and no one who was inside at the time of a disappearance was ever seen again.
The castle was spindly and crumbling, with narrow towers that looked like upward-facing claws and a gate that looked like a broken-jawed smile. Aside from its fearful appearance, it was not at all impressive compared to Castle Never.
No one knew who had built Castle Nowhere, and even the most ancient undead inhabitants of Evernight seemed to believe it had simply always been there. Most of the citys inhabitants&mdashfrom the undead to the necromancers&mdashwere afraid of the castle and believed it to be haunted (they saw no contradiction between this belief and the fact that Evernight itself was a horrifying and haunted place, and would take offense at being mocked for their fears). Needless to say, almost no one ever ventured inside the castle, both for fear of disappearing and for fear of being consumed by the spirits that haunted it.
The dark halls of Castle Nowhere were inhabited by ravenous incorporeal undead spirits. They would seize a victim and whisk them away instantly, at which point they would begin to feed on their preys hunger. This would result in living victims starving to death, and would leave undead victims&mdashsuch as ghouls or vampires&mdashin an eternal state of starvation worse than death or undeath.
It was unknown in Evernight what these spirits were or how they had been created, with theories ranging from entities of the Far Realm to souls of those who had been eaten by the citys undead. However, fear of these sprits was sufficient to keep sentient undead far away from the castle.