| stafftable    = 
| histrefs      = 
| pipes         = 
| tankards      = 
| coins         = 
| daggers       = 
| stars         = 
| coinstacks    = 
| skulls        = 
| quality       = 
| price         = 
| volorefs      = 
| usethe        = yes
| useon         = 
| inhabitants   = yes
| locations     = 
| organizations = 
The Cathedral of Helm was the grand fortress-temple dedicated to the God of Guardians, a beacon of faith in the city that bore his name, Helms Hold. For many years it stood strong as a sanctuary for the poor and magically-afflicted of the region, enduring abandonment by its clergy, natural disaster, and even all-out war throughout the 15 century DR.
thumb|left|350px|The entrance to the Cathedral during the Siege of Helms Hold circa 1479 DR.
Helms Cathedral was the most striking structure in the Hold, in a manner that accommodated acoustics that blocked all but the most raucous sounds.  
The grounds of the cathedral housed several smaller structures that helped Helms clergy bring aid to those most in need. Among these were an orphanage, multiple hospital wards, and even a clinic to aid those suffering from madness.
It was originally built upon vast underground chambers known as the Crypts of the Vigilant Eye, underground burial chambers that were used by the faithful of Helm for many years.
thumb|right|400px|The grand hall of the cathedral
Throughout the Cathedral were the located the Halls of the Guardian, grand chambers within which were built flying buttresses that extended up to the arched ceiling. The halls were furnished with grand statues depicting the god and heroes of the church. Helms holy symbol was displayed prominently in the stonework on wall-mounted pennants and on suits of armor that lined the halls.
It could house approximately 100 people within its great hall, and nearly 1000 in the entirety of the structure including the underground Sanatorium.
The Cathedral had specific architectural acoustics that created an impressive, but peaceful place of worship. 
For the entirety of its existence in Helms Hold, the Cathedral served as a home to the most unfortunate people of the region.
The expansion of Dumal Erards abbey into a grand cathedral began in the , the year that marked the death of Helm himself. Rather than abandon their temple, the people of Helms Hold finished it as a testament to honor their gods memory. The Sanatorium was built within the underground levels of the cathedral following the Spellplague, facilitating the Cathedrals transition into a sanctuary that offered institutional care for the poor souls afflicted by the Blue Fire.
Even though much of Helms Hold was damaged in the eruption of Mount Hotenow, in the , the cathedral remained unharmed. By this time however it had been largely abandoned by the Helmite clergy.
thumb|left|350px|The interior of the cathedral being used as a makeshift hospital
In the , the city of Neverwinter enacted the uncompromising Protectors Law, which stated that any spellscarred within the city had to be removed from its borders and sent to the sanatorium in Helms Hold. In the following years the Neverwintan government funneled significant funds to help maintain the sanatorium and further research for the care of its residents.
Some time during the 1470s DR, a human woman by the name of Rohini came to Helms Hold portending the return of Helm to the Faerûnian pantheon. Her proclamation earned her great renown and popularity along with the title of The Prophet. Supported by the Heirs of Azure political movement, Rohini rapidly gained veneration throughout the city and became the de facto leader the Cathedral of Helm along with its underground Sanatorium.
By the , it was revealed that Rohini was in fact a succubus, as well as the leader of the Ashmadai. During her reign over the temple Rohini tortured the residents of the Sanatorium, and used them as pawns in the schemes of the Abolethic Sovereignty and the evil goals of her own devilish cult. She claimed the Cathedral as her seat of power and took over the entirety of Helms Hold, even managing to summon forth a terrible pit fiend baatezu within the temples austere walls.
During the Siege of Helms Hold, the succubus Rohini was removed from power by the Hero of Sleeping Dragon Bridge. The hero infiltrated the Sanatorium through a secret underground entrance, battled through scores of foulspawn, and defeated Rohini in the great hall of the Cathedral. Reinforcements from the Neverwinter Guard arrived shortly after, helping Captain Dunfield reclaim the Cathedral and the rest of Helms Hold.
thumb|right|350px|The chaotic effects formed beneath the cathedral
Shortly after Rohinis fall, the Heroes of the Sleeping Dragon Bridge ventured beneath the cathedral to slay the few remaining Ashmadai cultist that were lingering within its catacombs and lower dungeons. During their expedition they slew the succubus Mizreal Everdark and defeated the pit fiend Baelrath, moments after it was brought forth to Toril by means of a summoning circle.
By the , supervision of the Cathedral was taken over by Holy Watcher Qerria, a zealous member the Order of the Gilded Eye. and gain misgivings about the peace of the Cathedral, feeling there was an unspeakable evil dwelling in the lowest depths underneath Helms temple.
The dwarven priest Brother Satarin remained a strong presence in the cathedral over the course of its century-long history. He taught the ways of Helm and helped the citys destitute long after the other Helmite clergy left the faith.