Spiros Dehkahks
The Citadel was an ancient fortress-complex in Thay that served as the inner sanctum of Szass Tam and the countrys infamous Red Wizards. Even before the wash of undeath overcame Thay, the Citadel was said to be an unholy place, haunted by utmost evil and teeming with secrets that should never see the light of day.
The Citadel was located atop the tallest peak of Thaymount, a chain of volcanic mountains in the heart of the tharch that shared their name.
The central keep of the Citadel had a broad, flat roof that granted a panoramic view of the fortress-city beneath and the Thaymount mountains beyond.
Most of the Citadel and its dungeons were built by the fortresss original builders, and later expanded upon by its Red Wizard inhabitants. In its entirety, the Citadel was believed to have been similar in size and scope to the dungeon-complex of Undermountain, found on the opposite side of Faerûn.
One of the notable structures within the Citadel was its palace, which was the personal residence of Szass Tam. While the regent of Thay spent little time within his residence, the palace served as a place to house his greatest trophies and as a venue for the outlandish celebrations of the Thayan elite class.
Beneath the Citadel were a series of dungeons that were strictly off limits―even to most Red Wizards. They were reserved only for those that committed crimes against Thay, undead that required eventual destruction, and select students of Szass Tam himself. They were a lawless place of abject squalor, home to scores of undead, petty scavengers, and lawless gangs that eked out meager existences within.
Although much of the Citadels lowest depths were never fully explored and charted, some information regarding the so-called Paths of the Doomed had been revealed over the course of the years.
The walls within the deepest bowels of the Citadel were decorated with deteriorating yet still-intact bas-reliefs and wall paintings of unknown origin. These works of art were created by the sarrukh, the progenitor race of the lizardfolk,
Within the Citadels dungeon-complex were numerous smaller establishments, including residences, shops, and the like
* The Last Stop, a trading post that was situated in the lower reaches of the Citadel, immediately before a tunnel that led into the fortresss dungeons. Merchants, slavers, and agents of Thay all competed for the opportunity to take ownership of newly arrived slaves and glean whatever gossip or news from the world beyond that would benefit them the best.
* Ravensblood Academy, an arcane academy for spellcasters found within the Citadels dungeons. It catered to necromancers whom Szass Tam personally found promising.
* Word of Recall, a specialized boutique in which mages offered a respite to denizens of the dungeons, in exchange for their memories and whatever meager coins they could offer.
The Citadel was connected to the Red Wizards numerous dread rings established across the Realms, set in a specific pattern of arcane importance. This mystic arrangement was a necessary component of the ritual of the unmaking, the so-called "great work" that Szass Tam sought to achieve.
Much of the Citadel was protected by arcane wards, which were set atop pre-existing enchantments placed by the Citadels original builders.
The Citadel was an ancient structure with origins unknown to most across the Realms. It was constructed by the sarrukh race, well before the first millennium pre-Dale Reckoning.
After taking over the Citadel proper, the Red Wizards led a number of expeditions into the fortresss depths, with varying results. Some groups managed to extricate large caches of treasure, while most others never returned from within.
In the , Citadel and in fact all of Thaymount became engulfed with Red Wizard activities. Tharchions from across Thay, along with zulkirs of the eponymous council made numerous visits to the region, and doubled and redoubled the number of troops they garrisoned within.
A few years later, the ever-curious Simbul recruited a band of adventurers to infiltrate the Citadel and investigate Szass Tam and whatever schemes he was surely concocting.
thumb|right|350px|A light show and smoke machine are sure to get the party started.
According to history books a century later, and as Xenk Yendar would recall, in the mid-1370s DR, Szass Tam called all the other zulkirs and all the people of the Thaymount tharch, Xenk and his parents among them, to a grand celebration atop the Citadel on the eve of the summer solstice. A few of the common people carried sun symbols.Honor Among Thieves only says "the capital" of Thay, which at the time should be Eltabbar. However, it is presumed Xenk lived in Thaymount, owing to him bearing Tams tattoo and the apparent depiction of the Citadel. Moreover, Xenk may be referring to it as the present capital. Therefore, the Citadel is presumed instead.Honor Among Thieves mentions only the eve of the solstice due to the presence of sun-like symbols in the crowd, this is presumed to be the summer solstice. The newly revived sun god Amaunator has a similar holy symbol and treats the summer solstice as a holy day, suggesting a link to the celebration. But it was all a lie—instead, Szass interrupted Zulkir Dmitra Flass as she addressed the crowd and produced a red horn from under his robes. With it, he cast the beckoning death, thereby creating an army of undead under his control for his coup and following conquest of Thay. All who tried to flee were slain by Red Wizards in his service, among them Sofina. Xenk saw a girl his age, Ishira, standing alone and lost in the panic.It is difficult to reconcile Xenks account and the scenes in Honor Among Thieves with the established history of Szass Tam, the zulkirs, and Thay, as Tams betrayal here contradicts his betrayals elsewhere. It appears to conflate the zulkirs gathering at the Citadel in The Crimson Gold in 1373 DR the meeting of the Council of Zulkirs in Eltabbar, the start of the War of the Zulkirs, and Tams takeover of Thay in Unclean in 1375 DR and a later new event of Tam creating his undead armies from his subjects. Since this is presented as a story from a book a century later and from Xenks childhood memories, its presumed to be a case of unreliable narration or movie dramatization.
Some time around the , the corpse of murdered storm giant king Hekaton was taken to the dungeons within the Citadel, and raised as a colossal undead death knight.
According to reports from some agents working with the scholar Lhaeo, the Citadel housed a population of drow during the mid–14 century DR.
There was believed to exist a specific book that detailed at least some of what would be encountered within the Citadels Paths of the Doomed.
It was said that some members of the race that originally built the Citadel still resided within its depths as of the mid–14 century DR.
* Lauzoril, a former Red Wizard who frequented the Last Stop trading post.
* Sharade Quilbax, an agent who operated on behalf of Damand the zulkir of divination.