Clymph Tower was a long abandoned keep in eastern Dunwood in the Great Dale.
The Nar demonbinder Clymph built the proud walled keep of Clymph Tower in the , as a pen for his foul minions, the demons that he had summoned and bound to his will. Imbuing the very stones with abjurative magic, he made the entire perimeter of the keep into a great magic circle from which the demons could not escape out into the wilderness. Clymph dreamt of founding a mighty empire in the Great Dale with his demonic armies, and created a permanent gate to the Abyss from which he drew his forces.
Two years later in  he created Tower Threespires, and linked the two by a permanent portal, so as to be able to come and leave as he pleased, while bypassing the magic circle of Clymph Tower. Unfortunately for Clymph and his ambitions, he was unable to control the demonic forces that he had summoned, and he was slain by the very instrument of conquest he had made. The demons, for their part, were unable to leave the keep as the demon-trap was so well made, and the portal through to Tower Threespires was sealed.
In the centuries since, those few who approached the lonesome keep reported that its stones glowed red with an inner heat, and the sound of a massive fire was to be heard within.
In the  a band of adventurers ventured into the keep, aiming to banish the demons that still lingered, but they were never seen nor heard from again.
During the Spellplague after 1385 DR, the gate to the Abyss was torn asunder and many of the imprisoned demons were succumbed from the lack of energy. Yet near a century later, a fiendish presence still lingered upon the ruins.
In the  a legend spoke of a booming voice greeting anyone who knocked thrice on the gate of the keep, and every so often they would receive an answer to a single question, spoken so quietly that one would need to press ones ear to the gate to hear the answer. Although most learned what they desired and departed, a few others would instead be absorbed into the very gate they pressed their head to, swallowed up by the keep and never to be heard from again. Nevertheless, it had a reputation as a dark oracle.