The Cormyrean Coins Coster, known as the "Coiners", was a business located in the city of Wheloon in Cormyr. It was a coster involved in shipping and warehousing.
The business had its own private dock and wharf on the east bank of the Wyvernflow River in Wheloon. They owned all the buildings on the adjacent Impil Street, including a number of warehouses.
The costers facilities were usually well guarded by veteran warriors and mages employed by the Coiners.
The Cormyrean Coins Coster was founded in Wheloon and was in business by 1358 DR. They were a small but fast-growing company, and aggressively competitive, being known to get into conflicts—and winning—against older, larger costers and even against Zhentarim agents.
By around 1369 DR, the Coiners had twice been caught smuggling cut gems and jewelry inside hollowed-out vegetables. The Purple Dragons of Wheloon thus kept a close watch on their activities.
Famed traveler Volothamp Geddarm wrote about the Cormyrean Coins Coster in Volos Guide to Cormyr.
Following continued efforts to smuggle jewels inside vegetables, operations were shut down in Eleasias of 1374 DR, while the Coiners sorted out their legal problems.
The Cormyrean Coins Coster was a shipping business based in Wheloon. It operated in all ports of Cormyr and Sembia, and had routes to Ilipur, Teziir, and Westgate. The Coiners used small, fast coastal boats over the sea and wagons throughout Cormyr and Sembia.
The costers primary business, and the one that made the most legitimate profits, was importing and exporting perishable goods. This included foodstuffs such as fruit and vegetables, which they supplied to restaurants. However, they also repeatedly smuggled gems and jewelry inside hollowed-out vegetables, which often got them into legal trouble.
The Cormyrean Coins Coster was led by a former adventuring group, and had a proud and aggressive attitude. The Coiners fought with, and wiped out, those who disrupted their trade, including older, larger costers and even Zhentarim agents.
CategoryCosters
CategoryWarehouses
CategoryLocations in Wheloon
CategoryLocations in Cormyr
CategoryLocations in Interior Faerûn
CategoryLocations in Faerûn
CategoryLocations on Toril
CategoryLocations
CategoryLocations in the Eastern Heartlands
cuen80yr8en77leqj1rjxrs4rcecxdr