Cragmire Barrow was the family burial ground of the Cragmire noble family of Neverwinter, prior to its demise in the early 14 century DR. It was not a part of the larger crypt beneath the nearby Cragmire Keep.Neverwinter includes both a Cragmire Barrow and a Cragmire Crypt. The Lore entry for the Barrow refers to the Crypt, so this article assumes they have the same history.
It lay under the rocky hills that overlooked Raven Cliff Beach and was not far from the High Road, just north of Neverwinter.The name "barrow" suggests some of these hills are artificial, being a burial mound or tumulus.
thumb|right|The sword in the gate.
Thick stone slabs and pillars roughly built of stone bricks framed the entrance of a tunnel into the hill, with a wrought-iron gate across it. This was flanked by a pair of statues of death. Curiously, an ornate sword of disturbing aspect was seen jammed into the gate by 1479 DR whether it was for the making of a magical seal or the breaking of one is unknown. On the other side, a lump of red wax and a shield seemed to form the seal itself.
Before the gates stood another statue, this one with a faded inscription at its base identifying the occupants and the reason for their downfall. At some point, its head had been knocked off. A simpler yet more emphatic message stood further in front and to the left of this a few skulls mounted on stakes jammed into the earth as a clear warning of the undeath and danger within.
thumb|right|A sarcophagus and brazier inside the crypt.
The first level was a crypt built of stone bricks, with thick pillars supporting vaulted ceilings.  Lighting was provided by a number of braziers. A short corridor stretched ahead into the hill, with a series of alcoves leading off of it and some separated by iron gates. Within these alcoves were ornate sarcophagi.
At the end to the left was a gate and staircase leading down to the so-called Forgotten Vault. This was a strange space of stone pillars and arches and portcullises forming circular chambers, all within a black void—whether a cavern or a pocket plane is unknown. In any case, this was where the mage Olandus Cragmire stored his most treasured artifacts, in a sealed casket within one of these chambers. These were a magical copy of Auroras Whole Realms Catalogue, a philter of the waters of Elahzad, and a lantern of revelation.
thumb|right|Two wights do make a wrong.
The first level was occupied by restless skeleton warriors and rotting zombies, and a pair of battle wights.
The second level contained more undead and guardian golems, including a magma golem and a bone golem, as well as the lich Olandus Cragmire himself.
Although the Cragmire family were allied with Neverwinters royal family, its members had formed a necromantic cult that schemed to take over Neverwinter and all the Sword Coast. They even raised an undead army.
However, before they could see their plan come to fruition, the familys secret was revealed in the , and the leaders of Neverwinter took immediate action. They dispatched the Neverwintan army to assault Cragmire Keep it was largely destroyed and every last member of the cult killed. The Cragmire family line was ended that day. However, the undead-filled barrow and crypt was a far deadlier challenge. Soldiers and priests ventured inside to battle or purify them, but few came back, at least alive. Unwilling to lose more lives clearing them out, the Neverwintan leaders chose to have the barrow and crypt sealed by powerful magical enchantments, and trap the horde of undead that remained within.
The barrow and crypt remained untouched for one hundred and fifty years, but the seals were gravely weakened in the Spellplague of 1385 DR. In the , Elder Reader Laris of Neverwinter learned of a casket of valuable artifacts that belonged to Olandus Cragmire and that they were still hidden deep inside Cragmire Barrow. Believing they would now aid in the citys defense, he hired an adventurer to delve into the barrow and battle through the undead to retrieve the artifacts. Olandus himself confronted the adventurer impressed by their power, he let them have the artifacts if they knew of the Cragmires, and attacked them if not.