The Crimson Wyrm was an old manor house in the village of Volkumburgh that was rebuilt and repurposed into an inn.
Outside the building was a sign bearing an image of a red winged snake. Underneath it was the word "Welcome" written in Common, Elvish, and Dwarvish. The inn also had a set of stables.
The inn had four guest rooms, each containing two single-person beds.
In the 14 century DR, the inn offered a good meal for 3 copper pieces, drinks such as cider for 2 copper pieces, and lodgings for 5 copper pieces. Horses were also stabled and fed for 5 copper pieces a day. If a guest provided their own bedroll, they would be allowed to sleep in the common room for a single copper piece.
In addition to being an inn, the Crimson Wyrm functioned as the towns dry goods store. Selling anything that could be used in day-to-day living, such as a block and tackle. Weapons were occasionally stocked, but they were expensive.
In the mid-12 century DR, after Volkumburgh Vale was sacked by the rampage of the devil-possessed stone golem known as Awtawmatawn, the villages Lord Volkumburgh hid his treasure beneath what would become the Crimson Wyrm. A narrow passageway connected its concealed cavern to a trapdoor beneath the villages fountain. This treasure was known to the inhabitants of Volkumburgh village, though its location was not, and over time it would come to be known as "Volkis treasure."
In 1358 DR, a man named Lychor took up lodgings in the inn to keep an eye on Amelior Amanitass efforts to reconstruct the golem and made duplicates of all his notes and plans. His imp familiar Anabis guarded his rented room.
In the month of Uktar, some time before the Feast of the Moon, a group of adventurers from Suzail would arrive, seeking out the scattered remains of the fabled Awtawmatawn on behalf of Amelior. When they came to the Crimson Wyrm its proprietor served them a free round of hot cider. They would rent themselves rooms and stay to easedrop on the local gossip.
Eventually, those adventurers managed to help Amelior re-assemble Awtawmatawn. And once finally awakened it began to rampage around Volkumburg. With magic items provided to them by Amelior, the Suzailian adventurers managed to defeat the golem and it fell upon the Crimson Wyrm. Destroying it and revealing a hidden cave underneath that contained Lord Volkumburghs fabled treasure. 
Over a decade later, the Crimson Wyrm could still be found within the town, having been rebuilt.
In the 14 century DR, the Crimson Wyrm was owned and operated by Volkumburghs leader, Red Rudyard.