| stafftable    = 
| histrefs      = 
| pipes         = 
| tankards      = 
| coins         = 
| daggers       = 
| stars         = 
| coinstacks    = 
| skulls        = 
| quality       = 
| price         = 
| volorefs      = 
| usethe        = 
| useon         = 
| inhabitants   = yes
| locations     = yes
| organizations = yes
Dragonspear Castle was a dwarven fortress built upon the High Moor during the 13 century DR. It had a long and storied history within Western Heartlands. It served as home to monstrous humanoids, became the battleground for two wars between Faerûnians and devils from the Nine Hells, and was even the stronghold for an angelic Shining Lady and her crusade
Dragonspear Castle was built across three low hills on the southwestern edge of the High Moor, east of Trollbark Forest and just north of where the Coast Way joined the Trade Way.
Extensive tunnels were dug under the keep, connecting with the subterranean Nepenthe River, the abandoned city of Kanaglym, and the greater depths of the Underdark. This underground waterway continued northwest to a small cave located within the Misty Forest.
The caves and tunnels beneath the castle housed colonies of giant, incandescent fungi,
The castle was infamous for the inter-planar portal located in the dungeon beneath its keep. This portal linked the castle to Avernus, the first level of the Nine Hells, allowing passageway for baatezu and other devils into Toril.
thumb|right|300px|The castle at night circa 1368 DR
The outermost walls of the keep held the Great Gate and nine grand towers encircled the castles outer ward. They stood 30 feet (9.1 meters) above the hill on which they were built, and built 10 feet (3 meters) underground. Four large turrets, 40 feet (12.2 meters) in height, were positioned at the easternmost and middle points of the hexagonal figure. The two barbican turrets, of similar height but smaller width, sat at the two western points flanking the inner gate.
Inside the courtyard at the front of the main keep was the Hold of Battle Lions, a ruined shrine dedicated to Tempus. It was destroyed once and rebuilt after the end of the Second Dragonspear War. Although the building itself was destroyed, its altar held a holy relic that allowed the castles portal-sealing wards to be replenished. Also outside the keep were several large iron cages that dated back to the First Dragonspear War. Since the hobgoblin occupation at that time, the cages have been used by the soldiers of the Shining Crusade, and the group of vampires that laired in the castle over a century later.
Perhaps the most notable feature of the castles keep was the skeleton of a colossal red dragon that draped over battered rooftop. The structure itself was in great disrepair, with glaring holes and cracked stones.
The ceiling of the keep was 30 feet (9.1 meters) above its stone tiled floor, at the highest point of its vaulted ceiling. 
Standing in the keeps anteroom were four marble statues depicting human champions wielding swords and shields inlaid with the images of dragons. 
The walls of the main hall were adorned with several tapestries, decorative shields, and six gargoyles. Its floor comprised stone tiles that were laid in a diagonal orientation.
The northern wing served as the castles original barracks. Despite its disrepair it offered decent shelter, and was even used as a makeshift boarding house for Coalition forces decades after its original occupants.
While it was later destroyed, the southern wing once served as the castles library and held a private study.
200px|right|thumb|A rendition of the mosaic depicting Daeros and Halatathlaer
Like the keep above, the basement of Dragonspear Castle comprised a long, central area connecting several smaller chambers along its north and south–facing walls. In the center of the basements stone floor was a large, circular mosaic depicting Daeros Dragonspear, mounted atop Halatathlaer wielding his iconic lance. Hidden beneath the mosaic was a secret compartment that held Daeross personal suit of armor.
Along the northern wall of the basement were a few smaller chambers, containing an underground well, a small shrine and one that held massive sealed doors. Behind these doors was a small cave that held the portal to Avernus, whose repeated opening plagued the people of the Sword Coast.
The southern rooms of the basement contained a small storage area, the castles larger and its kitchen. In the chamber beneath the keeps southern barbican turret was a shaft that led down to the underground warrens.
The Warrens was a name given to the cavern directly below Dragonspears cellar. Attached to the cavern was a narrower passageway that opened up the underground Nepenthe River. The warrens were used by the Shining Crusade a staging area for moving supplies and troops in and out of the castle.
Somewhere beneath the castle was vast labyrinthine maze. For some time it was various subterranean monstrosities and malicious fiends, including a greater guardian daemon. Hidden within its center was the artifact known as the Dragonspear, which was recovered and destroyed during the Second Dragonspear War.
Daeros Dragonspear emerged from Kanaglym, in the , bearing a fortune in gems. He built Dragonspear Castle around the lair of his copper dragon companion Halatathlaer, above the dwarven kingdom. The castle became a safe haven for dwarves within the region and their martial prowess helped ensure its security.
In the , Ithtaerus Casalia secretly created the first portal to Avernus within Dragonspear Castle. He bound the dragon Halatathlaer and tricked Daeros Dragonspear into entering the portal, an act that claimed his life. 
Afterwards, Ithtaerus lured other dragons to the castle with vision of a free dragon hoard. Three hopeful dragons arrived and battled each other, slaying Halatathlaer and demolishing most of the fortress. The surviving dragon, Sharndrel, was incensed by the deception and slayed Ithtaerus. Halattathlaers spirit remained connected to the castle, and later its ruins, for nearly a century.
Some time later, the ruins were claimed by bandits and humanoids. 
Hobgoblins seized Dragonspear Castle in the , and used it as a base to launch raids on the Trade Way and surrounding lands.
Armed expeditions from Waterdeep and Baldurs Gate finally swept through Dragonspear Castle in the . Unable to destroy the portal they established the fortified Tempuran temple known as the Hold of Battle Lions, from which they could stand guard over its entrance.
Devils took Dragonspear Castle in the , arriving through the unsealable portal.
The First Dragonspear War began a mere two years later, as a mist cloaked the ruins of Dragonspear Castle. It was said to have been resistant to even the dispelling efforts of the Blackstaff, Khelben "Backstaff" Arunsun. The forces of Waterdeep and Baldurs Gate once more converged on Dragonspear Castle, setting fire to its structures and defeating the devils within.
During the Time of Troubles, in the  Midnight, Adon and the rest of their party teleported to the castle seeking out the second Tablet of Fate. They were assaulted by the night riders of Myrkul and were forced to flee by jumping into the Nepenthe River.
The Second Dragonspear War began in the , as the pit fiend Baazka led an army of devils to retake Dragonspear Castle. He then gatherer an army of humanoids led by a their fearsome champion, the dominated black dragon Maelestor Rex. This fiend-led army destroyed The Way Inn and attacked Daggerford before being defeated by a motley force of combatants led by a handful of adventurers. The castle was cleansed of any demonic forces and the wards and shrine protecting its underground portal were reinforced.
thumb|right|300px|Dragonspear Castle occupied by the Shining Crusade
In the , the aasimar known as the Shining Lady gathered an army of zealous warriors and mercenaries, calling it the Shining Crusade. They occupied Dragonspear Castle and led a campaign against the Bhaalspawn that saved Baldurs Gate from the machinations of Sarevok. Once again the armies of Baldurs Gate and Waterdeep came together, and along with the armed forces of Daggerford, formed a Coalition that fought against the crusade at the siege of Bridgefort and again at the castle itself.
Following the battle at Dragonspear, the portal to Avernus was briefly opened by an imp masqueraded as the human cleric Hephernaan. No fiendish forces escaped from the Nine Hells however, due to the efforts of the Bhaalspawn hero Abdel Adrian and his fellow adventurers.
Some time before the , the castle came under control of undead horrors that were led by the entity known as Born.The 4e Campaign Guide omits all mention of fiends it maintains that the shrine of Tempus was overwhelmed by undead arising from the Nepenthe River, despite Volos Guide specifically saying (a) it was a temple and (b) it was destroyed by baatezu.
Later, around the , the rakshasa Nadir convinced the Szarlnaxi vampires to open the weakened seal that shut away the portal beneath Dragonspear, so that they could free the soul of their former leader, Voltan Szarlnaxi. In truth, Nadir sought revenge on his arch-nemesis, the paladin of Lathander Sir Isteval. The portal to Avernus was briefly opened once again, but closed in short order thanks to the efforts of Sir Isteval and the adventurers that accompanied him.
The first 100 years or so of the castles history was chronicled in the book, A Historical Treatise of Dragonspear Castle.