Durrens Workshop was a small and simple building that belonged to a famous sculptor and philanthropist Durren Strongshatter who lived in the pre-Weeping War Myth Drannor.
The workshop itself stood in the Nightingale Court district of Myth Drannor, nearby to the Castle Cormanthor and adjacent to the Street of the Evening Star.
Durrens workshop was a very humble squat building that served as a home and his workshop. The front of the building was paved and the walls were constructed with mortared rock, and the path leading to it was littered with a couple of dozens of his mundane and more exotic projects, with some being piled on the roof of the building.
The interior of the workshop was very simple, it held no treasure of the olden days, as Durren did not keep any reward for his work, instead, spending it on aiding the up and coming and struggling dwarven communities across Faerun. The most valuable thing in the whole building were his masterwork sculpting tools.
In the final stretch of the Weeping War, Durren Strongshatter, already quite old, stood against the invading forces with his pickax, defending his home and his work, and was slain by a yugoloth. Upon his death, the mythals arcane energies, mixed with the pouring magic of the war, and Durrens own creative spark, his creations came to life.
The newly living gargoyles avenger their creator by dragging the yugoloth responsible to the workshops rooftop where it was twisted, turned, and deformed into a horrific version of itself and turned into stone.
These non-evil gargoyles continued living in the ruined city. They were known to return to live every few years just to grab a hold of a fiend somewhere in the city and do to it the same thing they did to the killer of their creator. On occasion, adventurers that came across Durrens workshop were able to bride some of his gargoyled with gems to have a conversation.
Durren Strongshatter was a multi-talented sculptor but was especially passionate about carving gargoyles. His gargoyles were created in a multitude of shapes, humanoid, cat-like, dog-like, completely monstrous, and uniquely abstract. His gargoyles remained in the ruins of the city and the workshop itself for the centuries that followed their creators death.