Elminsters Hideaway, or Elminsters Safehold (known by Elminster as simply Safehold) was a refuge or safehold of Elminsters, hidden close to the center of Coliar in Realmspace.
From outside, the Hideaway resembled nothing so much as a giant sphere of shiny metal that reflected all light. It was about  in diameter.
Those who got through the sphere landed in the safehold itself, an extradimensional eight-sided room with a ceiling  up. There was a bed inside, and doors on every other wall. Shelves held thousands of books and potions, including Elminsters spellbooks and Lhaeos finished works.
As the dimension was somehow in contact with the metal sphere, it got very hot Elminster had installed a nonmagical item that blew in cool air through a grate. The grate itself had half of its label missing, but the remaining half read "...aire".This appears to be strongly implied to be an air conditioner. No mention is made of the power source, nor the repair service presumably, Elminsters learned how to repair air conditioners.
Anyone casting detect magic would notice a message, definitely not in Elminsters handwriting, across the sphere, reading "Notify next of kin before trespassing".
There were rumors of spectators and iron golems inside the safehold as of , but in-depth sources made no mention of such guardians in .
Most access was by Elminster through his spell, Elminsters evasion, but it was possible to enter as well by touching the surface of the sphere while wearing a magical ring whose only magical power was having "Elminster" written on the inside, and making not a sound.
Elminster created the sphere about 1000 years prior to , to better monitor the actions of Firebrand Flametongue, a red dragon whod retired to Coliar. After 100 years, Elminster confirmed Firebrand Flametongue was indeed retiring, and repurposed the pocket universe into a dimensional intersection.
However, more precise sages insisted the safehold was not created by Elminster, but by someone prior, and only given to him by Azuth.So Saith Ed Part 10. Gotta find the Candlekeep post.
Per some sages, only Ao had been to this place.
The safehold held four gates. One of them was to the temple of Mystra in Evermeet, another to Elminsters Castle, and the last two led to Earth one to Yellowstone National Park in 1869 AD, and one to Ed Greenwoods house in 1991 AD as of .