Executioners Run was a long pit in which the criminals of Port Nyanzaru, Chult were sentenced to die by being eaten alive by beasts. The spectacle of their executions also served as cheap amusement for the citys citizens.
Executioners Run was the centerpiece of Port Nyanzarus Old City. The main road through the Old City split to pass along both sides of the long pit. 
It was a  and  rectangular trench that was about  deep. and the only way out of the pit was a series of knotted ropes at one end.
Port Nyanzarus criminals were placed into the pit for execution, although with the tantalizing promise that they would be exonerated of their crimes if they were able to escape alive. as could offending one of the merchant princes or beggar princes.
Prisoners were dropped into one end of the pit, and had to make it to the opposite end and climb the ropes to be released. However, the pit was first filled with hungry beasts, such as panthers, velociraptor, or the occasional young allosaurus. The condemned had to scramble and dodge to avoid the predators, all to the cheering delight of the onlookers lining the pit. Those who escaped earned not only freedom, but the cheers and adoration of the crowd. Meanwhile, anyone who attempted to escape by other means&mdashor was aided by someone from outside the pit&mdashwas met with boos if not hostility from both onlookers and guards.
Folk of all social classes and walks of life from across Port Nyanzaru came to watch the executions, and would cram four-people deep against the walls to watch.
On occasion, one of the beasts would manage to escape the pit and cause terror among the crowd. Putting down one of these rampaging beasts was a guaranteed way to become a local hero.
The pit was constructed by Port Nyanzarus Amnian colonizers, although it was originally meant as an arena for a competitive ball game.
As of the late 15 century DR, some criminals were known to have become celebrities after surviving multiple runs through the pit, and it was speculated that a few of them committed their crimes simply for the chance to run again.
The beggar prince Pock-Marked Po was known to throw people into Executioners Run when they refused to answer his questions.
Coinciding with the events of the death curse, a gladiator named Taban refused to pay his gambling debts to an Executioners Run bookie by the name of Klahu, prompting her to hire muscle to force him to pay. Around the same time, a man named Draza was sentenced to the Run despite his claims of innocence. His husband, Belym, tried to hire adventurers to secretly protect Draza from the sidelines.