The Falcons Rest, or simply the Falcon, was a popular inn found within Arabel, Cormyr, in the mid- to late 14 century DR. Locals often directed rich visitors to this inn, and many believed the Falcons Rest to represent what the even-more-expensive Pride of Arabel should have been.
Quiet and cozy, the Falcons Rest exhibited luxury around every corner. The ambiance of the inn was maintained in part because of strategically placed shielding spells to help quell the noise.
The lobby of the Falcons Rest housed a large pedestal topped with a stone ball upon which an expertly stuffed falcon perched. It also contained a coat rack constructed from the tail of manticore supported by two mounted ankheg heads. Other stuffed exotic animals and monsters&mdashincluding a griffon and even a couatl&mdashwere found throughout the building being held aloft by magic. Many people treated the inn as a museum and came simply to admire and explore the bizarre menagerie of creatures.
The second floor contained a hallway with a taxidermied, headless chimera, with fancy brass lamps where its heads should have been.
The inn sat in the most prosperous section of the city, the north, where most of the wealthy nobles estates were&mdashsuch as House Nyaril, which was adjacent to the inn to the east. It was also located on a corner opposite the block containing a grove and temple to Sune.
The staff was known for their service speed and impeccable discretion in serving their customers. Travelers who visited the inn on a cold day could even be expected to receive a warm cloak, a hot mug of broth, and a steaming foot bath, all without even asking for them. The staff was also very cordial with repeat guests, including remembering their names and personal preferences for service.
Special "call gongs" were placed throughout the building. Striking one typically brought a servant running within just three short breaths. If guests requested it, servants would bathe them, or else one could take a bath in privacy.
The Falcons Rest was owned by a friendly sage named Elmdaerle, Elmdaerle was rarely present at the inn, however.