The Field of Triumph was a large outdoor stadium located in the Sea Ward of Waterdeep. 
The Field of Triumph was located at the southern end of the Street of the Singing Dolphin, across from the House of Heroes. It was bordered by Julthoon Street, Jelzars Stride, and Seaeyes March. And up until the mid-14 century DR, it was also adjacent to the Lions road. The main entrance to the stadium was faced towards the end of Gulzindar Street.
This stadium stood over five stories tall. Its main entrance was known as the Lion Gate, due to it being carved to give visitors the impression that they were walking into the maw of a gigantic lion.
The Field of Triumph was the venue for many public spectacles from late spring until late autumn, weather permitting. The Open Lord of Waterdeep used the Field as a public forum to give proclamations to the city, but most of the time it was host to exciting events such as horse races, shows of magic and illusion, martial displays of formation and skill, gladiatorial combats, and exhibitions of strange and wondrous creatures and monsters from all across Faerûn and beyond. Attendance often numbered in the thousands.
During Waukeentide, this coliseum was one of the buildings that the Guilds of Waterdeep traditionally held the gala festival and dance of Guildsmeet in. On Mirtul 9, the final event of the holiday Plowing and Running would be held here.
Once every four years, during Shieldmeet, the Lords of Waterdeep would gather on the Field of Triumph to be reaffirmed as leaders of the city. They appeared in person, seated on sixteen thrones, wearing covered helms and robes that disguised their identities.
After the Field of Triumph was constructed, its architectural designs were kept within the Map House.
In the , the director of the Field of Triumph was the head of House Phylund, Lord Urtos Phylund I.
In the , a mad bard and green dragon disrupted the Shieldmeet ceremony of the Lords of Waterdeep.
A year later, an owlbear broke out of its cage while being transferred to a holding cell in the basement of the Field and killed Urtos Phylund I.
In 1368 DR, Field of Triumph, like all other gambling establishments in the Realms became affected by Tymoras powers going out of control. Over four hundred bets were placed on the horse named Song of the Wind before the Field was able to update the odds board. The horse won three lengths ahead of the favorite steed, landing the Field of Triumph into debt. The establishment loaned a hefty sum of approximately ten-million golden lions from the noble Cassalanter family to pay the winnings out.
*Song of the Wind, the racing horse who, to everyones surprise, won the race in 1368 DR due to the goddess of lucks powers being out of control.
A long standing, though false, legend surrounding the Field of Triumph claimed that its Lion Gate was designed to resemble the face of a sea lion.