1
Floras Flower Shop, also known as Floras Flowers, was a flower shop in the city of Ravens Bluff in the late 14 century DR. Sometime around 1370 DR it was bought by the Ampners, torn down, and in its place an apartment complex was built. This building continued to house the shop on its ground floor, at no rental charge to the eponymous Flora.
This shop stood along Blacktree Boulevard South, in the Anvil neighborhood of the Crows End district. Prior to its buyout and demolition by the Ampners, it acted as the only entrance into the secretive market of Flask Circle.
The original shop stood only a single story tall and lacked any exterior signage. Tall, brick walls stood on both sides of its exterior, filling the gaps between it and neighboring buildings. The apartment complex built in its place stood four stories tall and had a rooftop garden that was the envy of the Anvil neighborhood.
The original shop had long, black curtains covering much of its walls, A stone hung from the ceiling that emitted a strong continual light effect, which reflected off the multitude of colors exhibited by the flowers on display. These flowers were all housed within small water barrels.
As its name implied, this shop sold a wide variety of flowers. Prices ranged from copper pieces for more common flowers, such as bunches of daisies, to three silver pieces for a bloom of more exotic fare.
The topmost floor of the revised building, the "penthouse suite", was kept aside by the Ampners for their own personal use. According to rumors, it was often used to house any adventurers the Ampners contracted to carry out unpleasant tasks on their behalf.
Around the late 14 century DR, a group of adventurers wandered around the streets of Anvil for about an hour, having been spent by the alchemist Wendell in search of Floras Flowers and the marketplace it concealed as he needed a number of ingredients for his latest potion. Eventually they found the shop, which at the time had a bucket outside holding some wilting black-eyed susans and sign above them, written in Common, inviting customers to "Hep yoreselfs to a free flowa." When they entered the shop and inquired about the Flask Circle, Flora explained to the adventurers that they had to purchase and wear one of her flowers or wear one of the black-eyed susans outside, as wearing a flower acted as a sort of badge of official entry whilst in the hidden market.