century DR
Flymms Cobblers was a small shoe shop located in the Lower City of Baldurs Gate, run by Sally and Dravo Flymm in the mid-to-late 15 century DR.
Flymms Cobblers was located not far from Beehive Goods and Wares and the Crimson Draughts shops.
The building opened into a small shop where the Flymm greeted customers and displayed its wide selection of footwear. The same room served as a workshop, and it held the couples inventory and ledgers. In the 15 century DR, the Portrait of Gortash was hung above the counter, displaying the "proud parents" spawn in a masterful stroke of paint. A set of stair led from the shops main room up to the second floor, where the Flymm familys living quarters were located.
Flymms Cobblers was a small and struggling business. At some point, the owners ran into serious debt, owing money to multiple parties, including some vicious loan sharks who threatened to torch the store. Out of desperation, the Flymms sold their young son Envers services to a warlock, earning a hefty sum that secured the shop and their couples safety. For quite some time, the shop remained in business until years later, when Enver Flymm, now using the alias of Enver Gortash, made a fortune by smuggling weapons. His ambition led the arms dealer to become one of the three leaders of the Cult of the Absolute, assembling an army of brainwashed servants, many of whom were infected with altered mind flayer tadpoles. While unsavory activities were hidden, Enver rose in prominence in Baldurs Gate, becoming a lord. Still bitter over his parents actions, Gortash stormed into Flymms Cobblers and infected his parents with mind-altering parasites. These tadpoles, however, were different instead of brainwashing them, the creatures dominated the Flymms. Sally was happy and eager, running the business and praising her beloved son for becoming a Lord, all while her true self was locked inside her mind, unable to do much but watch her body being puppeteered by the parasite. Sallys husband, Dravo, was faced with an even darker fate.
Sometime in or just before the , presumably, before the Flymms were enslaved by their son, Flymms Cobblers received a huge order of twenty-six scout boots for the Flaming Fist mercenary company of Baldurs Gate. The order demanded a timely delivery of the boots to the Wyrms Rock at the end of the same tenday. One of the Flymms annotated the order with "Tymoras tits, well never get this done in time!... I mean, how generous."