The Glory of the Morning, also known as the Gloryhouse, was a rebuilt temple dedicated to the Morninglord Lathander found in Archenbridge during the 14 century DR. It was considered one of the more popular and wealthy temples in all the Dales, and even Sembia to the southeast.
Shortly before 1369 DR, the temple was renovated to store more of the churchs wealth and its façade was beautifully restored in white granite.
It featured a tall, central spire with a large brazier that provided illumination far and wide. The Lathanderian clergy would add ground substances to the fire on holy occasions and celebrations to form pink smoke that rose into the sky.
The temple featured an in-house workshop that could be used by any Lathanderian at no cost, or by others for the price of 5 gp per day.
The Glory of the Morning was overseen by Light of Lathander, Mornmaster Stellaga Brightstar. She was assisted in her duties by Hand of Lathander, High Morninglord Orblin Storntar, the four ladies Dawnmasters Alguuna, Rassauva, Shirrye, and Tosstra,
Clergy members were well-known for offering advice to local Lathanderian faithful regarding mechanical devices or the likely success of new business ventures undertaken within Sembia or the surrounding Dalelands. The temples priests could be hired to assist with these endeavors, though they would immediately be recalled when given the opportunity to take on more adventurous or dangerous tasks.
While the temples leaders seldom offered loans to most aspiring businesspeople, it was more inclined to back projects led by Lathanderian inventors and entrepreneurs.
Because wyverns would often "investigate" the tower, out of sheer curiosity, several guardsmen equipped with powerful magic were stationed atop the temples spire.
By the , the efforts of High Morninglord Brightstar and her clergy had greatly enriched the lives of Archenbridges residents. The town had garnered much wealth and attracted craftspeople that would not normally visit such a rustic, and out-of-the-way town.