The Glow Shoppe was a store in the city of Ravens Bluff that sold various forms of light sources and lighting accessories in the 14 century DR.
This shop was located on the west side of Torngels Ride, in the Mortonbrace Neighborhood of the Uptown District of Ravens Bluff.
thumb|273px|The floor plan for the Glow Shoppe.
The building this business was housed in stood two-stories tall. It measured  in length and  in width, or . The first floor of the building was divided into two sections, the shop and a backroom,
On either side of the front door were two large display windows. There metal oil lamps with elaborate filigree shades hung on display alongside elaborate arrangements of candelabra and candlesticks.
The backroom was used for storage of the Glow Shoppes casks and barrels of oil, but also was where the shops various candle-making supplies were kept. These included blocks of tallow and wax, a large cauldron for melting the wax in, candle molds, dipping rods, dyes, perfumes, and wicks. While only "blocks of wax" are mentioned among the list of candle making supplies, it is safe to assume that blocks of tallow would also be present since the Glow Shoppe sells tallow candles and its stated that the candles are made on the premises.
The Glow Shoppe didnt take special orders, only selling what they had on hand, but the stock of things they sold were all offered at fair prices. Due to being a man who dreamed of having an adventurous life himself, the owner was sometimes willing to offer a special discount to adventurers in exchange for tales of their heroics, especially adventurers who were attractive women.
On the display counter and many shelves of this store one could find the items that Glow Shoppe always had on hand. These included lamps, candles, candle holders like candlesticks and candlelabrae, flint and steel, tinderboxes, and iron torch holders. The lamps sold by the store were made of either ceramic, glass, or metal. Torches for sale were all stacked in one corner. Lanterns of all sizes were sold, strung up for display on a line that ran across the shop, and wooden lantern poles for sale were kept standing in a barrel.
The tallow and wax candles sold in the store were all made on the premises by Sul Loman. The wax candles were offered in plain, colored, and scented varieties. The candlesticks on offer were made of either wood or brass, whilst the candlelabrae were made of either iron or brass. Varieties of both, made of unusual or precious materials, were also sometimes offered but they could cost up to five times the standard price.
Rarely, the shop sold some items that had continual light cast on them. These were usually cheap gems, metal candlesticks, and hardwood wands. These were all kept beneath the counter within iron and lead boxes, though they also sold even smaller and tightly-made boxes for the transport of individual items. Instances of this spell were provided to the shop irregularly through an agreement made with several local mages. Such continual light objects notably were provided to fellow Ravenian business Signs Painted.
Besides lighting objects, the Glow Shoppe sold lamp oil. Many city residents regularly purchased lamp oil from the store, making it one the shops bulk goods alongside candles, lamps, and torches. They were willing to dispense this oil to customers in whatever containers or lamps they brought with them, but also sold it in containers of various sizes and styles. These included hand-barrels, wax-sealed glass carafes,  metal pipes that were capped and sealed at both ends, and even  kegs. They also offered their lamp oil as delivery within casks or kegs, willing to deliver to anywhere in Ravens Bluff.
The store was operated by Tuk Loman with occasional assistance from his mother and grandmother, Sul Loman and Nola Loman, a pair of retired adventurers. All three of them lived above the shop.