Vassavicken
Grimskalle was a frost giant fortress located on the isle of Solstice in the Sea of Moving Ice in the Far North. It was later claimed by the goddess Auril, as her personal domain when she resided on Toril during the late 15 century DR.
It was located dead center on the isle of Solstice, set between gardens of ice sculptures that were formed by the Frostmaidens ice magic.
Grimskalle resembled an imposing skull, adorned with a horned crown. The entirety of its structure was formed of carved ice that emanated a mist of icy air, standing  tall from base to peak.
Grimskalle had three levels, along with a rooftop that was well-fortified by battlements. From bottom to top, Grimskalle comprised a snowflake-shaped dungeon, an entranceway set at ground level, and a palace chamber situated above.
Dungeon Level
Grimskalles stellate dungeon held a large, ice-covered central chamber, from which extended six hallways. The north-facing hall held the tombs of Vassavickens frost giant subjects, some of whom had been risen as skeletal undead. The giant queen herself was interred within a tomb of ice, set beneath the likeness of the titan Thrym.
The four side halls were inscribed with scenes that depicted frigid scenes of nature, each leading to a chamber that teleported an individual to one of the "tests of the Frostmaiden" found throughout Icewind Dale. In order to open the southern path, to the Hall of the Four Winds and the fortress vault, one had to pass the tests of cruelty, endurance, isolation, and preservation.
The Hall of the Four Winds held four tablets inscribed with the dogma of the Aurilian faithful, each of which was bound to a spirit from the Elemental Plane of Air. Just beyond were two smaller rooms, one of which housed the Codicil of White, and another that bestowed the blessing of the Frostmaiden.
Entry Level
The entrance to the fortress was inscribed with runes in Dethek, that directly translated to the word "Grimskalle". Beyond the entryway was a guard room,
Palace Level
Within the top level of Grimskalle was a throne room, once used by Vassavicken and later by Auril, along with the private chambers befitting a queen.
Due to its giant origins, the interior layout and furniture set within the build were built to enormous scale.
The imposing fortress was originally built for the frost giant queen Vassavicken.
Auril the Frostmaiden hid herself away within Grimskalle while her form appeared on Toril during the Everlasting Rime, circa the .
By the late 15 century DR, Grimskalle became connected to the appearance of Auril in Faerûn. If her form on the Prime Material plane was destroyed, the fortress was believed to collapse in on itself.
As of the time of Auril taking up residence within Grimskalle, only one elderly frost giant named Ertgard remained within. He dedicated himself to the Aurilian faith.
Aurils roc companion Iskra nested atop the roof of Grimskalle, just as a number of ice mephits sat along the walls like gargoyles, and the particularly intelligent giant walrus called Ukuma dwelled within its dungeon.