| destroyed     = 
| owner         = 
| staff         = 
| occupants     = 
| services      = 
| worship       = 
| basicrefs     = 
The Heart of the Rage was a fortress within a valley in Novularond created by elves around . It housed a portal to the Capstone of the Rage until its destruction in .
The fortress had been built in a valley on a mountaintop. Per Taegan Nightwinds appreciation in 1373 DR, the valley contained a castle the size of a small city. The place was built out of granite and marble. The fortress had a central courtyard from which straight boulevards radiated, their hexagonal flagstones inscribed with characters unknown to Dorn Graybrook.
The area was overgrown with weeds and flowerbeds, and notably contained a number of weir trees. An enchantment kept the environment mild, even atop a mountain in the Novularond.
By 1373 DR, the fortresss doors had warped and the citadel was crumbling. The structures included watchtowers, cellars, and what seemed to be visitors quarters. A spell was laid to keep the environment mild. The plaza itself was a portal to the dracorage mythal.
The citadel controlled the only point of entry to the hidden Capstone of the Rage, which had itself become operative just prior to .
On Eleint 25 of the , the Hermit, a millennia-old corpse tearer linnorm, described to a group of adventurers including Pavel Shemov and Dorn Graybrook that, not long after the Dracorage began, hed learned of a secret citadel that had been built in Novularond, long before the Great Glacier advanced over the region. Hed related information of this citadel to Sammaster some years prior. Sammaster, in turn, visited this citadel at some point prior to Uktar 9 of the , a time at which hed already modified the dracorage mythal.
On Eleasis 20, Sammaster made a deal with Iyraclea, so that shed slay any intruders on the Great Glacier. On Marpenoth 17, after capturing the intruders sought by Sammaster, rather than slay them, she made prisoners of them but agreed to let them continue their search, interested in what the lich was concealing. On Marpenoth 26, Iyracleas forces found the fortress. She, her prisoners, and a retinue explored the place through the evening. Instants prior to the destruction, Karasendrieth managed to activate the portal and escape with some of the other prisoners.