The Helmstar Warehouse was an old storage warehouse in Waterdeep that was privately owned by Chuldan Helmstar in the mid–14 century DR.
This warehouse was located along Dock Street, on the northeast corner of its junction with Crookedclaw Alley, in the Dock Ward of Waterdeep.
This warehouse was constructed of stone and was two stories tall, with high vaulted ceilings. High up on the buildings exterior were carvings of harpies and wyverns. These were situated on both its roof and its second floor ledge.
Within his warehouse, Chuldan Helmstar would fence carvings and statues. All such items were sold for 35% of their new-made market price. Their value was based solely on their size, workmanship, and what materials they were made of &mdash any enchantments or magical properties they may have had werent factored in.
Beyond statuary, Helmstar dealt in the handling of small cargo across the Sword Coast, at prices of two to six gold pieces per container. In this trade he was very discreet and took extra care in handling packages to ensure their safety, giving the warehouse a large clientele.
This warehouse was inhabited by a band of margoyles that were unwaveringly loyal to Chuldan. They guarded the warehouse and would hunt down anyone who trespassed or tried to steal from it.
By the late 1360s DR, the structure was leaning and some of its exterior carvings were crumbling away. Around that time, a female thief was trying to climb to the roof of the building one day with a grappling hook, using one of its harpy statuary as a hooking point. However, the structurally weak harpy statuary separated from its perch and was pulled down, shattering as it flattened the thief against the pavement. Chuldan went on to replace this statue with one of a crouching, terrified looking woman that was dressed in leathers and clutching a climbing cord in one hand.
Urban legends in the Dock Ward claimed that the ghost of Chuldans father, Thalagar Helmstar, drifted around the sewer door of this warehouse. These legends also claimed that this ghost had more than once defeated bands of thieves that had neutralized the warehouses margoyle guards with magic.