Stormserpent Towers)
High Oronel, formerly Stormserpent Towers, was the grand mansion of the noble Haldoneir family in Cormyr, the capital of the Forest Kingdom of Cormyr.
The High Oronel manse stood directly south of the sprawling Truesilver Castle, the estate of the noble House Truesilver, west of Suzails Royal Gardens.
The place was across the city from Immaero Sraunters apothecary.
The main door opened into a forehall, from which one could reach the main feasting hall. The roots of the disused towers connected at the back of the mansions, where the servants had their quarters.
There was at least one vault underneath the towers. A long walk away from it, deep in Stormserpent Towers main tower, there was a furnace in a room with a vaulted ceiling. The room had a ward, a steelshield wall in the middle. There were windows alongside the path needed for that long walk.
Marlin Stormserpent used a tall tower for his own. It was the most ruinous of the towers. A small, round room in the top level of the most disused tower had become a storage room for discarded furniture by . The room had a bolt on the inside to keep the door closed.
By the end of its time as the Stormserpent residence, it had grown quite darkened and dusty, despite its dilligent servants. 
The mansion was laid of stone and displayed large high-arched windows located in High Oronels central hall. Guests of the mansion were blessed with beautiful views of the capital from each of these windows. The interior of the mansion was a collection of "great rooms" and cramped servants chambers. The structure rose up six tall floors (with part of the mansion being four or five floors), and its eastern balconies opened to a stunning new overlooking the Royal Gardens. The mansion was surrounded by immaculately maintained grass lawns and gardens.
The building had been the Stormserpent familys residence for generations, though their numbers were in decline by , when Marlin Stormserpent began to unwittingly involve himself in the intrigues of Manshoon. Everyone in the place was assaulted with poisonous gases at Manshoons behest after the Council of the Dragon in late Mirtul of that year.
There was a ward around Stormserpent Towers. There were gates across the walls, and carriageways through at least one gate to the left of the entrance, there was a bower of shadowtop trees, and further beyond, stables.
The mansion was too small to house a large Suzalian noble family but was the perfect size to host parties for select guests, such as up-and-coming merchants and individuals of new wealth.