High Hall was a castle standing in the city of Elturel in the Western Heartlands. In the mid–14 century DR, it was the seat of the citys government and the home of its ruler, the High Rider, at the time Lord Dhelt, and also where large commercial meetings were held.
300px|thumb|right|Interior of the High Hall.
It stood on the southern edge of Elturel, atop a bluff or tor at the center of the city and at the edge of a cliff overlooking the River Chionthar. Its walls encircled the summit, and the soaring turrets of the castle dominated the city below. In the 15 century, the second sun known as the Companion hovered directly over the castle, day and night.
The roofwalks were always manned by guards, on the lookout for returning Hellriders or the smoke or fire of their beacons.
300px|thumb|left|Entry room of the High Hall.
A powerful freshwater spring rose in the cellars, forming a stream that wound down the hill through the citys Garden area. It guaranteed the citys water supply.
Bells in the High Hall tolled to signal the start and end of the workday, which was vital in a city of perpetual daylight.
The large entrance to the hall had a portcullis that led out into a nearby forest. The entry room was decorated with symbols of Helm, and even had a symbol engraved into the portcullis itself.
thumb|220x220px|The High Hall during its fall into Avernus.
A natural stronghold, this site had long been one of the few defensible locations between the Sword Coast and where the Chionthar met the River Reaching. At one time, it was the site of a troll lords stronghold, and later an ogre chieftains crude stone fortress, and at one point, the site was also held by orcs. Eventually, they were replaced by humans, who settled and built a castle here to guard against the trolls, ogres, and others. Over time, it became the possession of one lordling after another but remained as a refuge for human settlers.Forgotten Realms Adventures page 95 reports the site was occupied by trolls, then ogres, then humans, while Volos Guide to the Sword Coast page 94 says it was trolls, then orcs, then humans.