The Hill Giant Steading was a small fortified settlement located in the Moonsea region in the 14 century DR.
The Steading was a walled giant community built to the north of the city of Phlan and south of the Dragonspine Mountains, along the western shores of the Stojanow river. The Dragons Aerie, controlled by the dreaded Cult of the Dragon was located in the mountains to the north of the Hill Giant Steading.
The crude interior of the fortress consisted of numerous barracks and halls, including a training hall that offered free services to the members of the giant army. The Steading had one drinking establishment called the Twisted Horn Tavern.
The fortified encampment was home of malicious human and demihuman mercenaries, including more fearsome creatures such as ettins, cloud giants, hill giants, medusas, and tamed carrion crawlers, displacer beasts, and neo-otyughs. Ogres, oni mages, and iron golems were used as the forts guards. The Steadings treasure room was guarded by a red and white dragons, while the throne room of the shaman leader was guarded by a white and a black dragon.
thumb|One of the hill giant guards of the Steading.|225x225px
The Hill Giant Steading fort was used as a recruitment camp for those following the evil deity Bane, or another powerful being using his name in the 14 century DR. The Banites accumulated mercenary forces of humans, demihumans, and giants of the Moonsea. The efforts were helmed by a hill giant shaman devotee of the Lord of Tyranny. Despite the shamans best efforts, such a collection of unruly creatures resulted in many brawls and conflicts. The infamous Fire Knives established a cell within the fort and were recruited by the leader of Steadings fire gaints to assassinate the shaman leader of the hill giants in order to take control of Banes army.
After the cities of the Moonsea were transported away from Tori by a band of powerful beings, the heroes of Phlan infiltrated the Steading in order to shake and cripple Banes hold on the region. They encountered a spy named Kardal in the fortress who informed the adventurers that in order to get close to the armys leader, the hill giant shaman, they had to assassinate a band of antagonizing cloud giants who were among many factions battling for power within the Steading.