The Home of Chininsk Ambar was an amusement in the city of Phoenix within the Raurin.
The building lay submerged beneath the sands in the city of Phoenix.
From the Maze of Light in the Secret Maze of Kharan one could reach the residence of Chininsk Ambar. There was a short hallway leading up to a strange door, built to appear as though it called for depressing the latch and then pushing it was actually opened the opposite way, even hinged wrongly. The door opened into the Library of Chininsk Ambar as of , the library was in shambles. There were no other doors, but one wall was actually made of lightweight blocks that crumbled away if their mechanism was triggered. That wall led to a sitting room a carving of a skull allowed one to see the room across from the entrance, but double doors on the right led the way to the ballroom of Chininsk Ambar.
The ballroom was a place reputed as the one where anyone could dance. It had a  ceiling, with long, hanging crystals for illumination the walls were covered in frescoes of nymphs, satyrs and legendary beasts. Spring-loaded gimbals beneath the dance floor would complicate walking across the room it was easiest to dance, or even crawl, than it was to run. The room opened unto the entryway, which was a normal room, and unto the Death Trap of Chinisk, visible from the sitting room. The Death Trap was merely a hinged floor that dropped all those who stood by the west wall into an underground chamber. The chamber had a tunnel dug out of it which led into one of the cellars in the House of Khalif Mubrek unfortunately, it led straight in front of the mirror of opposition in his hallway.
The entryway was a normal room, which led towards a slide, or "Chandelle-Glisade". The room was a long, gentle spiral that fell counter-clockwise originally oiled daily, it was intended for descent on a pillow or a rug, with pillows placed at the end. Now, covered in fine sand, the abrasion and accelleration could both be dangerous they opened into the vicinity of the Baths of Garimsharr.
The only object of value was the lamp of El-Tarifa, an aerial servant who used to be the butler for Chininsk Ambar. If helped return all in the library to its proper place, it would stay with its helpers and perform up to one service that did not go against its nature (it was a good-aligned creature).