Onaglym also referred to as the House of Gems was a small stout keep, the headquarters of the Gemcutters and Jewellers Guild and the center of the dwarven community of Myth Drannor during the citys renaissance period.
Onaglym was located to the south from the House of Song and east from Castle Cormanthor. It was also adjacent to the Glim-Gardens grounds to the south, and rose above Stillwater to its west. Carved rock stairs led from Stillwater up to Onaglym, passing directly through a small temple of Haela Brightaxe, so the traveling worshipers could bow their heads to her on the way to the House of Gems.
The House of Gems stood on a rock formation that rose it above the rest of the city. The formation eventually became the upper levels of the Dwarven Dungeons, which eventually became a sprawling busy living, administrative, and communal quarters for the citys dwarves. 
The interior of the House of Gems tower.The House of Gems had both main entrance on the surface, and main entrance in the Dwarven Dungeons underneath, with some secret passages that were connected to another part of the Halls of Light.
The tower of the House of Gems held the Room of Words, the magical dwarven archive where the craftsmen kept the copies of the glyphs and words of power from across the city that were commissioned from them by the rulers of Myth Drannor.
The room right behind the entrance to the main part of Onaglym was known as the Safekeep Halls. The main part of the second floor was called the Hearthhame Halls, where Harldain Ironbars office was located along with his personal stash of magical and masterwork items he rescued from the fallen city.
When the ancient water pumps were functioning, the rhythmic calming sound of the mechanism moving, akin to a slow heartbeat, could be heard throughout the keep.
The interior of the House of Gems circa 1369 DR.
In the early days of not yet strong Myth Drannor, Onaglym was a dwarven stronghold storehouse built to withstand the attacks of the roaming aggressive orc tribes.
Later, the structure was officially given the name Onaglym, the House of Gems and became the  Gemcutters and Jewellers Guild hall of Myth Drannor. The city itself, and the House of Gems were protected by many magics, which attracted the dwarven gem-cutters, and crafters from all around. They arrived to the city with their good and wares ready for trade. There, the precious gems were graded and deposited for safe-keeping. The House of Gems was a big part of the citys trade and economy.
The skilled dwarven crafters of the House of Gems under the leadership of Lord Harldain Ironbar constructed complex system of water pumps that supplied the ares and fountains of Myth Drannor and Dwarven Dungeons with both mundane and magically enchanted waters. It was pulled from deep underground freshwater sources, protecting the city from their reservoirs being poisoned.
The dwarves of Onaglym also created the original gem of the weave used to focus the magic of the mythal.
In the final stretch of the Weeping War, the last of the surviving dwarves disabled the Lifespring Wells, stopping he water pumps, and flooded the Onaglyms gem-filled vaults.
After the fall of Myth Drannor and Harldains death, the dwarf lords still kept an eye on the House of Gems in his ghostly state. During his life, and undeath, he accumulated countless treasures and dwarven artifacts, weapons, and armor he rescued from the ruins of the City of Song and kept safe from pillaging monsters and looting opportunistic adventurers.
In 1369 DR the Cult of the Dragon led by Kya Mordrayn took over parts of the ruined Myth Drannor aiming at corruption of the citys mythal and the pool of radiance under Castle Cormanthor. Eventually the cultist took over the House of Gems Room of Words in order to be able to breach countless seals left behind by the retreating survivors of the Weeping War.
*There were countless rumors of the vast treasure of the gem-cutting guild still hidden in the depths of the ruined House of Gems.
*Harldain Ironbar - the Lord of the dwarves of Onaglym who resided there in life and haunted it in death as of 1369 DR.
*The undead were haunting the Onaglym grounds in 1369 DR, created by the pool of radiances  spawn pool until it was destroyed by the adventurers from Phlan.
*Members of the Cult of the Dragon briefly occupied the round tower of the House of Gems in 1369 DR.