The House of Gond was a temple dedicated to Gond in the town of Essembra in Battledale in the mid-to-late 14 century DR, and one of only two temples that were of note in all of Battledale at that time.
A mid–14 century map of Essembra depicting the House of Gonds location (building #2).
The House of Gond was located roughly across from the Swordspoint Shrine of the Church of Tempus.
The temple stood two stories tall. Its façade was impressive. The stone structure had broad steps that ascended to its entrance amidst massive pillars supporting a portico adorned with various stone cogs that were enchanted to endlessly turn on their own and glowed faintly in the dark. On its roof the building was adorned with numerous chimneys to let out smoke from its smithy.
The entry hall of the temple was crowded with all manner of devices that could garner interest, but were ultimately rather minor, such as a  screw-lift water pump.
The temple was marred by a great sense of arrogance and inertia, lacking the sense of excitement over invention and technological developments that was present in most Gondar temples. This atmosphere was due to the attitude of its Lord High Smith Gulmarin Reldacap.
The House of Gond was oddly neglectful of local lay worshipers. Its activities primarily revolved around Gulmarins own restless drive to tinker and invent, and he cared nothing for the interruptions of the lay worshipers.
Visitors were not allowed beyond its entry hall and there the temples clergy would make eloquent pleas for donations. If a visitors donations or devotion to Gond were impressive they might call for the Lord High Smiths presence, but Gulmarin cared little for providing aid to all but the most dedicated of Gonds worshipers, which he judged to be those who made large monetary donations and carried themselves with a conservative and respectful manner . He would give non-worshipers a blessing and implore them to join the faith before shooing them away, whilst the faithful would receive some speech about how they should renew and strengthen their dedication to Gond by undertaking a job for him and then similarly be quickly shown the door.
Whenever an envoy of Gondar from elsewhere in the Realms came to visit the House of Gond, Gulmarin would show off one of his small useful inventions, thus ensuring that no "outsider clergy" would ever get him demoted.
This temple was constructed sometime in the month of Mirtul, in the . In its first year, the temple brought a great deal of money to the land of Battledale through the selling of its Lord High Smiths inventions. Over the years that followed, however, under its Lord High Smiths supervision the temple grew neglectful of its local faithful, garnering numerous complaints and calls for him to be removed from office. But his tinkering ultimately lead to innovations in candle molds, cart suspension, and dry ingredient measures that were adopted elsewhere.
The temple was presumably abandoned in the , when all of Essembras inhabitants fled the town due to nearby battles between the forces of Myth Drannor and Sembians allied with the Returned Empire of Netheril.
The House of Gond was run by Lord High Smith Gulmarin Reldacap. Circa 1367 DR, he was aided in the temple by four lesser priests,