The Jade Palace of the Necromancers, also called the Jade Palace of Zoraya or simply the Jade Palace, was a prominent structure found in the city of Ysawis within the Grey Jungle of the Cities of the Ancients region of east Zakhara in 1367 DR.
The Jade Palace was constructed from polished white sandstone. The outer walls of the palace formed a square. One main gate found in the northwest corner, and an accessory gate in the southeast corner, allowed access to the palace. Each of the four outer walls measured  in length.
The northern court was originally designed with defense in mind. This open courtyard stretched along the entire length of the Palaces northern wall. The northern court was filled with well-manicured lawns as of 1367 DR.
The main gatehouse was a two-storied fortification complete with four ballistae located on the western side of the outer north wall. Juju zombies armed with crossbows were stationed here.
Vaults lined the walls of the northern court. Most contained simple gardening tools, but some were stocked with weapons and armor.
The packed-dirt of the courtyard running the length of the western outer wall was once used to train the royal horses.
The stables were located in between the riding court and the western outer wall of the palace. Bizarre steeds such as ghost mounts, skeletal horses, and even a Zakharan roc were housed here and attended by zombie grooms.
The gardens were tended by various undead who maintained rows of violets, gardenias, and orchids during all hours. A circular pool was located in the center of the gardens.
A multitude of guest rooms and parlors surrounded the flower gardens. Each was decorated with carved jade panels of varying colors from bone white to red and green.
The throne room was decorated with dark green jade carved panels depicting the conquests of King Kagemni. A pair of massive jade thrones dominated the throne room. Each weighed .
The riches of Ysawis were housed within the Gallery of Antiquities. The treasury was warded from unwanted intruders with symbols of insanity and a cadre of malevolent spectres.
An overgrown mini jungle within the palace, called the Kings Garden, served as a morbid undead zoo for Sumulael to monitor is undead monstrous creations.
An elite force of at least 1,000 undead guarded the Jade Palace including undead monsters, ju-ju zombies, and undead jungle giants.
The necromancers Kazerabet and Sumulael added antiscrying and antiteleportation wards in their separate private chambers within the palace. Both necromancers utilized the improved skull watch spell to decorate the palace with magical skull sentries that they could communicate with telepathically. Each necromancer had sixteen such skull watchers.
All of the corridors and halls within the Palace were enchanted with continual light spells, making it extremely difficult to navigate the Palace by stealth. Furthermore, undead servants prowled the halls at all hours of the day carrying out their designated tasks.
An elite core of 300 ju-ju zombies were outfitted with ancient banded mail and shields bearing the ancient symbols of Ysawis–a griffon and vishap. The majority of ju-ju zombies wielded spears or scimitars as weapons, but some carried crossbows or some form of polearm. 
A dozen powerful undead jungle giant slaves, previously of the Silent Arrow Clan, served as elite guards.
The palace was originally referred to as the Jade Palace of Zoraya long ago when Ysawis still stood as a mighty city.
Princess Zoraya was rumored to be buried with the legendary Talisman of Shajar in a secret mausoleum hidden somewhere within the Jade Palace.
The undead roaming the Palace would ignore approved visitors unless they turned hostile. Guests caught sneaking around in unauthorized areas would be detained by the undead and interrogated by lieutenants. Punishment for being caught unininvited within the private sections of the palace was meted out by either Sumulael or Kazerabet.