Korinns Keep was an island stronghold of the Harpers located in the Korinn Archipelago in the Sea of Swords in the late 15 century DR.
The keep lay atop one of a number of sea stacks that stood off the coast and rose around  above sea level. A shipwreck floundered near the base of a neighboring stack.
thumb|left|A view down into the vault of Korinns Keep.
On the surface was an apparently circular wall built of rough reddish bricks. Soil and grass were allowed to grow on the roof, giving it the appearance of a wide and low earthen mound. It was largely featureless but for a single reinforced iron door marked with the harp and crescent moon symbol of the Harpers.
The keep included a below-ground vault wherein were stored an assortment of valuable, powerful, and dangerous jewels and magic items taken from the foes of the Harpers. These included an alchemy jug, a Tablet of Reawakening, and a mysterious red horn used in Szass Tams beckoning death ritual, and many others. The chamber was long and narrow, with a roughly cut stone table running the center.
The strongholds door could only be opened by a Harper, that is, by a person wearing a Harper pin, which would glow on bypassing the magical ward.
Several Harpers were stationed inside Korinns Keep to guard its vault, but they were not in there at all times. To alert them, the keep had a system of alarms. Single strands of spiderweb were attached to some of the valuables and, when snapped, these would trigger an alarm gong and fires on the walls and bring the guards running in.
thumb|right|350px|Edgin waving his fellow thieves in.
thumb|right|350px|But whats wrong with the alchemy jug? Is the mayonnaise bad?
In the mid-1490s DR, the ex-Harper bard Edgin Darvis led his team of thieves, including Holga Kilgore, Simon Aumar, Forge Fitzwilliam, and Sofina to Korinns Keep to steal its treasures. For this robbery, he donned his old Harper uniform, cloak, and Harper pin. They somehow scaled the cliff and ran to the door, evading some unseen threat as Edgin hurried them inside. While the thieves helped themselves to the treasures of the vault, and Sofina claimed a strange red horn, Edgin went for the Tablet of Reawakening. But the poor thief triggered an alarm, summoning Harper guards, whom Sofina struck with chain lightning, to Edgins dismay. She then cast time stop, trapping the guards, Holga, and Edgin—Simon tried to counterspell, but found her too strong to beat, and was forced to flee with Forge and Sofina. Edgins last act was to throw the Tablet. Afterward, once the spell expired, Edgin and Holga were left at the scene of the crime and captured by the Harpers, later to be convicted of crimes of skullduggery and grand larceny by the justice of the Lords Alliance and incarcerated in the Revels End prison.