Temple
The lair of Lostmauth was the personal domain of Lostmauth, one of the three red dragons that ruled over the isle of Tuern throughout at least the 14  and 15 centuries DR. 
Lostmauth made his lair within the depths of a grand temple that featured colossal statues of dragons built atop its walls. Within the main structure of the temple was a great circular platform. When activated, the platform would depress into the ground and open up into a deep chasm that descended to the subterranean chambers of the temple.
300px|The interior of the temple within which Lostmauth stored his hoard.
The lower levels of the temple featured elaborate stone work left in a state of partial ruin. Magma from the volcanic core of Tuern flowed over crumbling walls and partially collapsed stone columns.
Lostmauths inner sanctum lay within a structure built within the depths of Tuerns volcano. A pair of life-size statues of red dragons flanked either side of its entrance. Anyone entering within were witness to the great red dragons massive hoard of wealth. Piles of gold coins lined the stone floors that surrounded a magma-lined, pentagonal dais.
The dragons lair was situated both on top and within the volcanic isle of Tuern.
The entrance of the draconic temple was patrolled by his wardens, four red iron golems. Numerous varieties of drakes could also be found both outside the temple and within its deeper levels.
Dragonhead statues spewing slow-moving fireballs lined the passageways of the subterranean depths of Lostmauths lair.
A pair of giant fire scorpions served as the protectors of Lostmauths innermost sanctum.
350px|A group of adventurers standing before Lostmauth within his innermost sanctum.
During the 1480s DR, Lostmauth granted the Cult of the Dragon admittance into his lair. After acquiring the Red Dragon Mask, the cults leader Severin Silrajin appeared before Lostmauth and the two appeared to strike a bargain. Severin offered Lostmauth some form of tribute and in return, the red dragon would destroy the city of Neverwinter.
Fortunately for Neverwinter and its people, Lostmauth was slain shortly thereafter by a band of adventurers that included Alaeros Margaster, Nymmestra Durothil, Barrowin Undurr, and Talon Everhale.
* Veshal, a dragonsoul of the Cult of the Dragon that stood guard over the temples inner passageway.