Lathanders Light was the local temple to the Morninglord in Dagger Falls.
Situated within the walls on the east side of town this solid stone building faced the rising sun.
Lathanders Light was a square and solid stone building with a tiled roof. Even after it reconstruction in 1369 DR, however, it still retained a number of scorch marks from the fire that destroyed it in 1359 DR.
Although spartanly appointed, the halls were lit with a rose-red network of continual flame spells cast by the clergy.
Before the destruction of the temple in 1359 DR, Lathanders Light created its own wine, dubbed Lathanders red. The temple provided healing potions at a high price to help raise funds. In addition, it was particulary active in sponsering stalls and trader in the market of Dagger Falls. Even going so far as to establish a mounted escort group of merchants called the Morning Shields.
In 1359 DR, the temple was burnt down by Eragyn the Dark, burning a dozen priests in their beds. An event that the locals at the time blamed on the Zhentarim and Constable Tren Noemfor. In the wake of the conflagration, a magical torc that radiated light, and supposedly able to dispel areas of magical darkness,  went missing from the temple.
At some point in 1369 DR, after Randal Morn reclaimed Dagger Falls, the temple was rebuilt and began attracting priests of Lathander from around the Inner Sea under the stewardship of Harndarr Oryn.
By 1372 DR, the priests of Lathanders Light determined through divination magic that the missing torc may have been near Eagles Eyrie. However, due to the delicate politics surrounding the Brightblade dwarves and the folk of Dagger Falls, Randal Morn only suggested the job to those he or the Church of Lathander considered trustworthy.
Despite the revelation that Lathander was actually Amaunator in 1385 DR, the temple kept its traditional name.
By 1480 DR, Dareen Travaskyr had become the ranking priestess of the temple and used her notoriety and the temples riches to recruit adventurers throughout the dale.
* His Radiance, High Mornmaster Harndarr Oryn who was trying to bring hope of peace and renewal to the Dagger Falls community in 1369 DR.
* Her Radiance, Dareen Travaskyr, in 1480 DR.