Mantors Library was the preeminent place of learning in the city of Phlan. It was a repository for the knowledge about the city, the Moonsea North, and all manner of academic fields from the mundane to the fantastic.
The library was situated in the center of Scholars Square, in the Old City of Phlan.
Beneath the library proper was the sub-basement that housed its extensive archives. Deeper still beneath the basement was the network of sewer tunnels that ran beneath Phlan, and ruins formed from the numerous times the city had been destroyed.
Upon entering the library seekers of knowledge were greeted with the scholars garden, a serene indoor space for quiet reflection complete with a reflecting pool.
To the left of the scholars garden were the ground-level book shelves, containing scores of books covering subjects from philosophy, mathematics, history, geography and even some rhetorical works. Along the back wall opposite the entrance were several reading chambers and the scribes hall, a workplace used by the librarys resident scholars, and the cramped personal study of Phlans resident Master of Scribes, also referred to as the Scribe Master. On the right side of the garden were a series of personal compartments that offered the privacy needed for engrossing studies or the focus needed by the librarys skilled illuminators.
The underground archives were set within a large square room that resembled a pyramid set atop a box. Along each of the  tall walls were multiple thousands of tomes, scrolls, and historical documents of great significance.
The library was often bustling with activity, as the citys scribes always had some scholarly duties that had to be performed. Novice scribes were enlisted to transcribe documents and perform other less-than-exciting tasks. The amount of energy that all the librarys scribes poured into their work was truly exceptional.
It was funded by nominal fees that were charged for the scribes work in conjunction with generous donations put forth by the citys wealthier citizens.
Following Phlans destruction during the Dragon Run in the , Mantors Library like much of the city, was left in absolute ruin.
A half-century later, in the , the scribes of the library and the citys resident wizard Denlor worked together to create the Secret Cache within the librarys archives.
During Phlans occupation by the malevolent spirit Tyranthraxus, Porphyrys Cadorna enlisted a group of adventures to delve into Mantors Library in order to find more information about the pool of radiance beneath Valjevo Castle and restore the fame and fortune of House Cadorna.
After the Zhentarim took control of Phlan in the , the archives of Mantors library was the site of a tragic book-burning led by the citys inaugural Lord Protector, Cvaal Daoran. The zealous Banite destroyed documents that were critical of the Zhent organization along with those that were critical of their politics.
Sometime during the early 1480s DR, the Cult of the Dragon directed two of their agents, Tibeem and Spernik to infiltrate the library and discern the location of the ruined Temple of the Scale in the Dragonspine Mountains. At the same time a series of books, including the History of the North, Lex Geographica, were reported as being stolen from the librarys shelves.
Another of the dragon cultists Ellison Berenger also came into the city under false pretenses, hiding among the librarys scribes for a matter of months. He used that time to track down the memoirs written by Ren o the Blade, with the inadvertent assistance of the senior librarian Garda Greenleaf. The deplorable cultist then killed the beloved Garda before fleeing from the scene of the crime.
After the cults patron Vorgansharax took control of Phlan, the green dragon known as the "Maimed Virulence" stripped the Lord Sage of Phlan of their office and occupied Mantors Library with a squad of the Tears of Virulence soldiery.
* The Lord Sage of Phlan
* Head Curator Opanrael, head librarian and curator of Mantors Library as of 1480 DR
* Cassra Brandywine, Scribe Master circa the 1480s DR.