The Memory Spire, also known as the Phaerimm Memory Spire, was a mysterious silver tower located in the Anauroch region that held the key to the survival and eventual return of the phaerimm in the late 15 century DR.
The tower was known to appear and disappear irregularly throughout the northern Anauroch (within the territory of the returned Empire of Netheril as of the 15 century DR). The Shadovar of Netheril believed that there existed a pattern to its appearances, and hoped to discover this pattern in order to predict its future locations.
The Memory Spire was a tomb-like structure that housed a whole hive of phaerimm in stasis. In addition, it contained many phaerimm-made magical weapons designed specifically to destroy the Netherese and to kill Shadovar.
The Memory Spire was protected both by the fact that it seemed to move about at random, but also by powerful traps and guardians.
Following the Return of Netheril in the , the Netherese made it a priority to exterminate the phaerimm, their ancient nemeses. By the late 15 century DR, the Netherese believed that they had successfully not only wiped out the phaerimm, but also had incinerated all of their corpses to ensure that they would never return. However, they remained concerned about the mysterious Memory Spire, which they surmised to be a tomb containing at least one phaerimm corpse alongside a presumed trove of anti-Netheril magic, weapons, and lore. They thus sought a way to track the location of the Spire in order to destroy it.
By the , Netheril had all but collapsed following the destruction of its capital, Thultanthar, and had not yet managed to destroy the Memory Spire. During this year, the remainder of the Netherese forces battled a Bedine uprising over control of the Memory Spire, and the fighting awoke the hive of phaerimm within. They soon unleashed the same life draining magic that the phaerimm had once used to create the Anauroch desert long ago, and again laid waste to the lands of Netheril.
While the phaerimm of the Spire had been reawakened, they remained trapped inside the tower by the grace of Mystra. In the years following the Second Sundering, they were monitored by weaveghosts who had the power to foil any phaerimm escape attempts by manipulating the Weave itself. Nevertheless, they were still able to enact their life-draining magics and, slowly but surely, had found ways to cast other spells as well.