unnamed couple of vintners
The Morden winery was a small vineyard and winery not far from the village of Dragon Falls in the Vast that belonged to the Morden family of Ravens Bluff for at least two generations by the late 14 century DR.
The secluded winery was hidden away from prying eyes in a small depressed valley between two hills on a stream that merged into the Fire River, a short track almost straight southeast outside the village of Dragon Falls.
Thick rows of lush and bountiful grapevines were hidden from sight by a thick fence of thorny bushes of over  tall and trees  to  tall, magically grown by the medusa and her mate. There was only one entrance through the thicket and a  long granite path that led towards the vineyards two buildings, one on he left side of the path and one of the right with a home in the middle that hid a small shed in the back.
thumb|The winerys interior layout.|265x265px
The winery building on the right side of the main entrance was the area designated for wine production and stored all necessary tools for the process. The left side building housed cases of fermenting wine, bottling supplies, corks, and was the location of the cellar entrance, primarily used for wine storage and the medusas study.
The vintners home was a humble cottage with a spacious common room, a well-equipped kitchen with a cold storage cellar, and a large bedroom.
The Morden winery produced a variety of high quality wines. Most of it was stored to empty some space in the cellars before its ownership was restored to the Mordens some of its wane was sold to the Inn of the Dragon in Dragon Falls. It was sold for cheap as locals were hardly interested in consuming wine, so most of it was consumed by tourists and travelers.
Under the maedar and medusa control, the winery was always monitored by a flock of crow and one huge crow named Stoner – Samanthisss familiar and her eyes in the skies. The vineyards were patrolled by two domesticated stray dogs – Merlot and Wander and the ground hid several dangerous serpent vine snakes, thornslingers, and bloodthorns.
This winery was inherited by Charles Morden many years before the . The wealthy gardener was a religious man who could not stand alcohol, so he did not manage the winery, leaving its management to the couple whod run the establishment until the . When the war against the Grand Army of the Tuigan swept Faerûn, the couple who ran the Morden Winery disappeared. Many locals presumed they were taken hostage and killed by the Tuigans who passed through the Vast. A year later, a young priest of the Earth Mother came across the abandoned winery. Not knowing of its ownership, Larn, a priest of Chauntea, singlehandedly restored the winery and resumed its wine production. During that time, he befriended a duo of ancient for their kind, fun-loving satyrs, Quellonis and Harmon, who became regular guests of Larns, tasting new wines, singing songs, and playing music late into the night.
Soon after, the medusa mage named Samanthiss and her mate – maedar Vorlon, found the winery. Impressed by its grapevines and well-maintained condition, they decided to take over as the couple had an affinity and passion for winemaking. Larn was petrified by the medusa, while Vorlon assumed the identity of the young vintner. The couple continued running the winery for the following decade. Vorlon showed remorse over Larns fate but came to love winemaking. Larns stone body was kept in good condition if the medusas ever needed food.
Vorlon and Samanthiss discovered a set of Books of the Master Winemaker that taught them everything they needed to know to produce quality wine. Samanthiss found the winerys extensive cellars and used them to house her study where the medusa could hone her skill by day while hiding her monstrous appearance and taking care of the grapevine by night. The new owners quickly mastered winemaking and began producing a variety of good-tasting wine, much more than they could ever hope to consume themselves.
There were many dangers in the Vast bandits, monstrous humanoids, wild beasts. All were known to occasionally target the Morden Winery. Over the decade, the medusa and her maedar defended their new home and used the slain intruders for food. To further protect themselves, Samanthiss and Vorlon used magic to grow thorny thicket around the vineyards and summon creatures to act as eyes in the sky, guards, and muscle.
Quellonis and Harmon soon were faced with a locked door and their "friend" sending them away from behind it. The satyrs noticed that their friends voice sounded different. The satyrs used their fey abilities to spy on the new owners.
The winerys rightful owner, Shauna Morden of Ravens Bluff, discovered its existence after her fathers – Charles Mordens death circa the . She renovated and reopened the Tavern of the Garden and was interested in using a family-owned winery. She hired a group of capable adventurers of the Living City to investigate the presumed abandoned winerys condition and establish a dialogue and partnership with its managers if there were any.
Subsequently, the winery was returned to the Morden family, and, by some accounts, the maedar vintner was allowed to run the business and pursue his vintners passion by others, the medusas were slain. Larn was believed to had been released from the decade of being petrified, either with some help from outside forces and his satyr friends or as a sign of good will by Vorlon.