The Owlroost Head was a ramshackle inn located in the Amnian town of Purskul and named after the hill of the same name.
Owlroost Head was a tumbledown inn, inside and out. It was a collection of small warehouse buildings, barns, and homes connected by shabby passages, all roofed but ramshackle in construction. The interior was just as impressive, filled with mismatched old furniture. The inn was infested with mice, rats, and cats who chased and devoured the vermin on occasion. Among other inhabitants, Owlroost Head was run by a collection of eccentric employees.
The interior was painted and decorated in lush Tethyrean greens and flame-yellow colors that promoted a cheerful and uplifting atmosphere in the Owlroost Head.
The establishment lacked quality services and was overpriced. The rooms were of various sizes and varied in furnishings. The rooms were heated by firestones, which were limited in number and were available first-come-first-serve.
However, the Owlroost Head served decent quality fare available from its dining hall. The inn offered a wide selection of wines. However, the selection was chaotic and ever-changing, seldom repeating. The local specialty dishes that were served to the customers were quite notable. Emerald Chicken dish was a flame-spiced collection of chopped greens, onions, rice, chicken livers, and other poultry bits. It was just as popular as the inns juicy dumplings in a crispy shell and stuffed with minced pork. Ornabra was a more modestly-priced fare, a type of stew served to travelers and caravaners. Among other dishes on offer were various roasts, local river fish (usually eel), fluffy lemon-flavored potato cloaks, squid-stuffed yams, and fried bones salad.
The inns name came from the password used by a local secret society – the Many-Fanged Serpent, during their meetings in the establishment. The password of Owlroost Head was the name of a hill to the east of Purskul. By the late 14 century DR, the organization was believed to be gone, leaving behind only the inns new name and occasional swearing "By the Serpent," or hushed rumors of events attributed to the group. One such rumor was the Many-Fanged Serpents treasure was buried somewhere under the inns dining hall. This belief was speculated to have been the inns main attraction and reason for existence.
At one point in the late 14 century DR, Owlroost Head Inn stopped hiring on-staff nigh-companions for the inns guests after a group of them turned out to be doppelganger murderers. The inn also received a favorable mention in Volothamp Geddarms guide book that covered the nations of Amn and Tethyr.