century DRCorwell Fanfare, prior to Morlain
| staff         = 
| occupants     = Church of Sune
| services      = 
| worship       = Sune
| basicrefs     = 
| ownertable    = 
| stafftable    = 
| histrefs      = 
| pipes         = 
| tankards      = 
| coins         = 
| daggers       = 
| stars         = 
| coinstacks    = 
| skulls        = 
| quality       = 
| price         = 
| volorefs      = 
| usethe        = 
| useon         = 
| inhabitants   = 
| locations     = 
| organizations = 
The Palace of Passion was the grand temple dedicated to Sune, the goddess of Beauty, Love, and Passion, built in the Mortonbrace district of Ravens Bluff.
thumb|A map of Palace of Passions exterior.|285x285px
The temple was built in the Uptown District of Ravens Bluff, the Mortonbrace Neighborhood on Griffon Trail. Once visitors exited the temples main doors, they could see DeVillars Creek running on the righthand side with a small bridge across it.
Palace of Passion included three structures. The main building was what the temple proper it stood further away from Griffon Trail. Two smaller buildings were the infirmary, also used as a contemplation chamber, and the dormitory for the temples clerics.
The Palace of Passion was surrounded by a green garden of pruned flowering fragrant trees with a fountain depicting the goddesss face at the center. The statue of Sune poured water from a pitcher into the fountains basin as crystal wind chimes serenely clinked. The gardens had several gazebos for those who sought privacy under the night sky.
thumb|A map of lower and upper levels of the Palace of Passion.|285x285px
The temples staircases, floors, and columns of pink marble, all were exuberantly gilded. The columns stretched towards the Palaces dome carved out of red crystal. Even more crystal delicately jangled on numerous chandeliers that lit the temples halls, chambers, and hallways with soft luminescence. The furniture and decorations were lavish paintings, statuettes, and sculptures inspired awe, while fresh flower arrangements made the temple appear warm and welcoming.
Past the main gates stood a richly decorated foyer with three giant crystal chandeliers and a grand staircase that led towards the Palaces ballroom. The room was propped up by ten columns and had two staircases that led to the temples lower level and a large dining hall and storage areas. The ballroom was encircled by lofts on the upper level for guests to observe dances and celebrations, while on the other side of the lofts were three balconies overlooking the temples wooded gardens. On the right side of the ballroom was a series of small chambers called the Bowers of Romance. Each of the rooms was filled with cushions and famous heated baths, with a series of dressing rooms and garderobes next to them.
The second-floor lofts housed musicians during festivals and had curved flying walkways – the Lovers Walks, above the temples sanctuary, used by lovers and for the clergy rituals. Sunites believed that anyone who met on the Lovers Walks was blessed by Lady Firehair herself.
thumb|Two Heartwarders, Gregor Fenfrill and Candi Kane strolling through the streets of Ravens Bluff.|370x370px
The members of the Church of Sune who ran the Palace of Passion maintained positive relationships with the clergy of Lliira, Selûne, Sheela Peryroyl, and Hanali Celanil. However, rivalries still existed, especially when it came to beauty. As of the late 14 century DR, the Palace of Passion had strained relationships with the Church of Sharess as the temple of Sharess in Ravens Bluff was used by cultists of devil lord Glasya. Despite the tension, the High Priestess of Sune, Morlain maintained an official declaration of friendship between the two churches. Palace of Passion had one more church in Ravens Bluss with whom it had strained relationships. The High Priest Relarn Dayspring of Church of Lathander, and member of the Clerical Circle of Ravens Bluff campaigned against the Church of Sune being admitted as the civic religion of the city.
Despite opposition, the Palace of Passion had many supporters, in part thanks to the Churchs support of several civic programs in Ravens Bluff. One such program was The Body Beautiful, guided by the belief that a beautiful body was a healthy body. Clerics of Firehair tutored Ravenaar in the use of cosmetics, hair care, and styling, as well as taught them about diet and exercises. Other classes regularly held in the Palace of Passion were dedicated to clothes and jewelry. The classes were immensely popular among the noble youths. The temple of Sune also helmed the program to aid the homeless. Unfortunately, it was on hold for a year as the temple was being rebuilt.
The temple of Sune also put up lush revelries to celebrate several city-wide festivals. Greengrass was marked by a grand outdoor revelry Midsummer Night celebration was dedicated to couples, both young and young at heart Grand Revel celebration was a monthly event filled with a day and a night full of dancing, and lastly Feast of Love was the name given to weekly soirées for partners to consume delicate sweets and strong wine.
The Palace of Passion owned a famed mountain resort called the Valley of Dolls, two days walk from Ravens Bluff. Only those personally invited by the clergy of Sune were allowed entrance.
The Palace of Passion followed the dogma outlined in the Loves Lessons, a holy book of the Sunite faith. The temples 14 century DR High Priestess, Morlain interpreted the teachings of the goddess as not narcissistic, like many believed, but as guidance to love and cherish oneself, to find parts of oneself that were beautiful, and that one cannot love another until one loves oneself. Morlain also advocated for raising children in love, good food, physical exercise, and plenty of sleep, as well as with good skincare.
thumb|Embracing lovers on the Lovers Walk.|370x370px
The original Palace of Passion was destroyed in a fierce battle between the avatar of Sune and Baatezu Glasya, the lord of Malbolge and daughter of Asmodeus. The heroic battle brought hordes of new worshipers to the goddess of beauty, and a mere year later, the temple was rebuilt through generous donations from rich artists, merchants, nobles, and social climbers.
On the 10 of Mirtul, the same year as the temples destruction, the Palace of Passion, aided by temples of Lliira, Sheela Peryroyl, and Hanali Celanil, hosted the first Annual Beautification Day, a festival dedicated to improving ones looks. The first attempt did not reach desired popularity. However, the newly rebuilt temple had grand plans for the following celebration.
*Aesthetia, the cleric who ran the temples infirmary in the late 14 century DR.
*Angela Sunshine, a younger priestess in the late 14 century DR.
*Candi Kane, a young cleric in charge of the Body Beautiful program in the late 14 century DR.
*Carlotta de Amourette, a Knight of the Golden Rooster and a stunning Dame of Ravens Bluff who was in charge of the tramples festivals and celebrations in the late 14 century DR.
*Corwell Fanfare, once a High Priest of Ravens Bluff, a traveling preacher and cleric of the goddess who reportedly visited his deity in Arborea in the late 14 century DR.
*Gregor Fenfrill, a tall powerful and gorgeous man in charge of clergy recruitment in the late 14 century DR.
*Ilbrar the Iron, husband of High Priestess Morlain and the administrative supervisor of the temple in the late 14 century DR.
*Morlain, the High Priestess of the Palace of Passion in the late 14 century DR who had time to start homeless aid programs and teach beautification classes.
*Perilily, less attractive and less intelligent than many of her fellow clergy members, Perilily was a temple greeter and the infirmary healer in the late 14 century DR.
Other junior clergy members included Clarice, Amber, Ruby, Tisane, Dirk and Steel.