Algondar Daliano
The Pink Flumph was a theater in the Castle Ward of Waterdeep. It featured plays of different genres in afternoon and evening sessions.
The theaters façade featured a sign with its name and posters advertising the featured shows.
The lobby was decorated with a red carpet and wooden mannequins dressed as characters from several famous plays. Entrance into the auditorium was granted through two ticket booths with individual ticket offices one on each side. Offstage, the theater contained seven separate dressing rooms, a wing that stored numerous props, the stage managers office, and a green room that connected the office, the dressing rooms, and the wing.
The auditorium had a total capacity of 140 seats, laid out in seven rows of 20 cushioned seats each. The wooden stage rose  from the ground, with a large red curtain and several backdrops for the featured plays.
The interior of the Pink Flumph was lit by lanterns enchanted with continual flame spells. Within the theater and backstage, the lights could be dimmed and raised via command words known to the stage managers.
Admission to any of the theaters plays cost 1 shard per person. On any given day, each performance typically drew an audience of between 20 and 200 paying customers.
In the spring of , the two plays featured in the Pink Flumph were the following
* Meet the Goodberrys, an afternoon comedy about a large family of halfling criminals.
* Kiss of the Lamia, an evening tragic play about a prince from Mulhorand who, after being banished to a desert and being charmed by a lamia, returned home to reconquer his kingdom.
The theater was originally owned by Algondar Daliano and passed on to his wife Iokaste after his death sometime in the late 15 century DR. Lacking her late husbands passion for theater, Iokaste saw the business as a way to interact with and gain the favor of important citizens of Waterdeep. She delegated all artistic and management decisions to the theaters directors.
The violet faerie dragon Wishes was originally Algondars companion and continued working in the theater following his death. The dragon used its magic to provide special effects for the plays and donated all its earnings to Waterdhavians in need, by flying throughout the city while invisible and leaving coins at different locations.
As of the late 15 century DR, notable performers at the Pink Flumph included the drag queen Chaotic Eva, the bard Florizan Blank, and the actress Yaliek Iltizmar.
The Pink Flumph was one of the locations that was potentially said to conceal the entrance to the Vault of Dragons.