The Pride of Arabel was the most prestigious&mdashand the upper class of the city frequented there often. Purchasing a meal at the Pride of Arabel was likely to grant one an ear with members of the city council or the leaders of the local trading companies.
The large, multi-storied building had fluted columns supporting elevated ceilings. The walls and ceilings contained plaster relief sculptures and many large mirrors.
The west side of the inn contained a magical tightly twisting, carved spiral staircase, which hung without supports in the air and spun slowly when guests ascended or descended. Folks called it the "falling stair" because it felt like you were falling when you walked upon it.
The rooms contained beds that included gold in their construction, and they had curtains. The curtains were especially necessary in the winter months, because the upper floors had no heat.
The Pride was located at a corner on the north side of the East Way, east of the center of the city. Across the street to the west was the Striking Snake tavern, across the street to the south was a local eatery known as the Feasting Board, and diagonally on the opposite corner was Arabels famous baths.
According to Volothamp Geddarm, the staff were all snobby folk dressed in fancy uniforms, who seemed to spend much time in front of the buildings many mirrors. They were slow to wait on their guests, in Volos opinion.
The Pride served such dishes as stuffed birds or roasts. However, all food at the inn was cooked from scratch, and so it took a long time for a guest to received ordered food. Unlike the food service, the drink service was thankfully quick, and they had a very wide selection of beverages in the cellar.
It typically cost about 17 gold pieces per day to stay at the Pride of Arabel, which included common stabling and dining fees.
A mimic was used to guard the entrance to the cellar where the alcohol was stored.
The inn used to be the manor home of a rich noble.
During the Time of Troubles in the , Adon, Cyric, and Kelemvor were granted free service at the Pride because of their role in the Knightsbridge conspiracy. While there, they discussed a mutual quest and also met a woman from Deepingdale known as Midnight. Because the inn was full, Midnight ultimately had to spend the night at the nearby Scarlet Spear, while Cyric had to stay at the Night Wolf Inn and Kelemvor at the Hungry Man. In the morning, they all departed for Castle Kilgrave, to attempt to rescue the goddess Mystra.
One of the wall mirrors in the inn was rumored to be a magic gate to a Sword Heralds refuge. If true, no one on the staff seemed able to activate the mirror, and they refused to have it identified.