Ruldarrs Pipes, Locks, Tobacco, and Fine Furniture was a store in the settlement of Bargewright Inn in the Savage Frontier in the mid-to-late 14 century DR. It was run by Ruldarr.
It stood in the upper part of Bargewright Inn, on the northern side of the road known as the Rise, between Shondrins Packsack of Plenty and The Bargewright Inn.
Inside, the store was dimly illuminated but fragrant with the scents of different woods and types of tobacco. The roof was supported by a dozen internal pillars, while furniture crowded the floorspace. The cellar was stacked with coffins, chests, and tobacco bins.
As Ruldarr was a keen gardener, his plants took up much of the space in his shop, many of them hanging plants in large, levitating pots. They rose and moved at Ruldarrs direction, or simply drifted about on their own, with leaves and roots dangling in the air. These plants seemed to enjoy Ruldarrs wines as well, and if a guest poured their unwanted wine into one, they would find several thirsty potplants hovering around wanting some too.
On one pillar was hung an old and well-worn scythe. According to local legend, Ruldarr could command it to animate and come to his defense, should anyone assault him whilst in the store.
Moreover, the pillars were rumored to include secret compartments and even traps. One was confirmed to included a spring-loaded dagger blade after a thief was found skewered by it one morning before 1366 DR. Similarly, a good number of the furniture pieces for sale had hidden drawers, though Ruldarr of course did not hide his valuables or traps in these.
As the name suggested, the store had an eclectic selection of goods for sale. Firstly, there was tobacco, which sold at a steady rate for 2 cp to 1 sp for a pouch depending on the variety. Secondly, there were also pipes for smoking them.
Thirdly, there was also available for sale fine furniture, with beautiful and ornate pieces, some with secret drawers, strongchests, and even coffins (presumably new, not used).
Finally, the store sold padlocks, which were the primary trade. In addition, there was a case of so-called "found" keys that would supposedly unlock doors and chests in ruins around the North. Adventurers brought these mystery keys to Ruldarr and other adventurers purchased them, at 6 gp for a key, in hopes of someday, somehow finding a lock they fitted, and claiming whatever riches lay behind.