Safe Harbor Marine Guarantees,
This business was located in the Seaglimpse neighborhood of Ravens Bluffs Harbor District, across the lane from Maukshouns Rope, Cable, and Chain.
Safe Harbor was housed within a stone building that stood two stories tall,In the module The Fishermans Tale the building is described as having a hanging sign, swinging in the wind, that bears the full name of the business in addition to the above slogan. This could be a case of a change in signage or a mistake by the author.
Flanking the building on its seaward side was a  tall tower of stone, resembling an obelisk. A narrow, wooden staircase spiraled around the tower, leading up to a little observation room at its top. The staircase was covered, with steps made up of rickety and rotting wood. There a large signal bell was kept, along with a weathervane in the shape of a ship that squealed as it twisted.
The first floor of the building was made up of a waiting room, an office space for scribes, a conference room with a fireplace, and a vault in its rear. This vault, measuring  square, was constructed at a great expense. Its floor, ceiling, and walls were all made of stone, with the walls measuring  in thickness. The only entrance to the vault was a  thick, iron-plated door, sporting a heavy and complex metal lock. Within this vault was kept the companys books, insurance contracts, and various finances.
The second floor of the building was occupied by the offices of Safe Harbors two owners, Clark Pebble and Lyndon Golight, separated by a foyer. Each office was reflective of its owner, with the only similarity between them being thick wool rugs.In the module The Fishermans Tale the cleanliness of each office is mixed up by the author, with Lyndons office being described as "cluttered and dirty" and Clarks office described as the "clean" one.
The walls of Lyndons office were largely taken up by shelves, most of them bearing heavy leather-bound books on maritime law, though one was taken up by a tapestry depicting an ocean scene. The shelf overlooking Lyndons large desk had many pigeon-holes for him to store various  contracts and other papers, which were always neatly rolled up and tied with a ribbon. The office was otherwise populated with various pieces of furniture, brass lamps, religious paintings, and a few samples from cargoes that the company had ensured. Unlike Clarks office, the room was kept regularly by the office apprentices.
As its name implied, this insurance company particularly specialized in ensuring against all manner of things maritime related, with sea captains and ship owners making up the bulk of their clientele. This included loss of ships and their cargo from shipwrecks, fires out at sea, or saltwater damage to durable goods (such as hardware or furniture). Theft insurance, in case of being robbed dockside or out at sea from pirates. And as of 1361 DR, the business also offered "spoilage insurance", to protect against losses of perishable cargo brought about by time delays. This included such circumstances as long periods without win, dockworkers striking, or delays brought on by harbor bureaucracy. And the insurance covered not only foodstuffs, but also precious cloth and furs.
Insurance contracts were individually tailored for and negotiated with each client. The fees of these contracts and their deadlines varied depending upon a ships reputation and whether or not the client was a regular customer. Regular clients only had to pay their fees on a monthly basis, whilst infrequent shippers had to pay their premiums in advance. These premiums were typically 10% of whatever the estimated value of a ship and/or its cargo were, whilst up to 20% was charged for theft insurance. Though a given premium could also depend upon whatever pre-known danger factors there were to a given sea route. And finally, spoilage insurance was issued at 10% of whatever the value of the perishable goods was.
In addition to selling maritime insurance, Safe Harbor owned a number of nautical charts of the Inner Sea and Moonsea that they sold copies of, though anyone not part of their ensured clientele would be charged double the asking price. Unbeknownst to his partner Clark, the ever crooked Lydnon Golight altered the nautical charts that were sold to the non-ensured, moving the placement of map markers denoting rocks and outright removing map markers for obstacles and known pirate lairs.
In the , Clark Pebble was attacked at sea by pirates and during the confrontation had his right knee smashed with a shield. While recovering from the crippling injury he was offered a job opportunity by his brother-in-law, Samuel Barkdell, to work at the mans fledgling maritime insurance firm. After a few years Clark left that company, having grown restless, and traveled back to his home of Ravens Bluff to found Safe Harbor Marine Insurance. Two years after its founding, Clark was approached by his attorney Lyndon with an offer to become his business partner and he agreed.Port of Ravens Bluff (pp. 42, 45) states that Charles OKane became Mayor 20 years ago, which would set it in 1361 DR. Other dates have been extrapolated by working backwards from this.
The Safe Harbor company was cooperatively owned by Clark Pebble and Lydon Golight, the latter of whom also served as the businesss attorney. Beyond them the company employed a head secretary by the name of Tricia, a bookkeeper, two scribes, and a handful of apprentice office boys. Wary of taking risks, whenever Safe Harbor dealt with cargo the two owners knew little about, they would hire an outside appraiser more familiar with said form of cargo.
Between the two owners, Clark was the expert at appraising ships, rarely missing a detail on account of his own experiences as a sea captain. He was known for his tendency to refuse insuring ships that were in a subpar condition and for being quite demanding of captains during contract negotiations. Whenever business was slow Clark would ascend the tower out front their offices, watching the movement of ships in the harbor from the observation room, and ring the signal bell that was kept up there whenever he spotted the ship of an insured client pulling into port.
Lyndon Golight handled most case work, wrote up contracts, and offered legal consultation. However, unbeknownst to his partner, Lyndon was an accomplished rogue that ran an extortion racket with a small band of other thieves, indirectly coercing people into becoming clients of Safe Harbor. The actions undertaken by his accomplishes to coerce victims included sinking ships, destroying cargo through means of fire or unleashing rats, and tipping off pirates or any of the other rogues that operated around the docks.