Samblars Swords was a weapon smithy that operated in the city of Myth Drannor for hundreds of years.
The shop was located on the Dragoneyes Street in the citys ward of Cormanthor, just north of Castle Cormanthor.
In 1369 DR, Samblars Swords still stood even though damaged by the ravages of the Weeping War with its central tower shattered but still erect over the almost completely demolished second floor of the store. The tower stood supported by the thick enchanted cables of steel. Samblar himself placed the toughness enchantment on the cables.
The first floor of the structure housed Samblars small forge he used to craft his goods.
In the years before Myth Drannor opened itself up to non-elves, Samblars only offered bladed weapons crafted in the fine, slender style of the Tel-quessir.
In the subsequent years, they began to craft and sell a wide variety of swords and other blades. A number of gnome and dwarf apprentice-smiths joined Samblar at his shop, offering contributions that led to new blades that rivaled the strength of those forged by dwarves.
The smithy opened up some time before the Opening of Myth Drannor, in the .
In , the ruins of Samblars Swords were enveloped by the area of wild magic created during the fall of Myth Drannor. Only the smallest area of the building was not affected by the wild magic and that was the magical defensive ward placed by Samblar before his death in 714 DR on the vault door. That area was enchanted with the blade barrier spell that kept the creatures and looters away from the store. The ward could be deactivated by the command word lost to the time. Because of that the building still held precious magical arms created by Samblar somewhere inside.
Adventurers claimed that the sound of hammer and anvil strikes could be heard coming from the store during nights of full moon. They told the stories of Samblars ghost coming back to work during those times. Some even claimed to have talked to him and receiving gifts of weapons or the password to his vault.