Selchouns Sundries Shop was a prosperous general store located in the Sea Ward of Waterdeep circa the .
thumb|right|270px|The original location, circa 1367 DR.
Selchouns Sundries was first established in the Sea Ward sometime prior to the , and prominently stood on the point of land formed by the intersections of Feather Street and Diamond Street with Delzorin Street. This choice location was across Diamond Street from the Cassalanter family villa, across Delzorin Street from the sprawling Eirontalar Villa, and across Feather Street from the Dezlentyr family compound.
thumb|right|270px|The newer location (labeled 3 circa 1367 DR.
Unfortunately, the shop burned down in a mysterious fire sometime in late 1367 DR but reopened at a new location a few blocks north, on Staghunters Way,
The building on Staghunters Way was two stories tall and looked like a respectable business. It was L-shaped with the larger wing extending into the interior of the city block.
Selchouns Sundries sold toys and tourist treasure—small wooden shields that commemorated a childs visit to Waterdeep, child-sized tabards with whimsical slogans, and so on—but also carried everyday necessities like flint, kindling, twine, string, leather thongs, clay pipes, carrysacks, etc.
Osbrin Selchoun started his shop at the Feather Street location sometime prior to 1357 DR. The building was consumed in a mysterious blaze in late 1367 DR and Osbrin was forced to relocate. He chose a fine-looking building on Staghunters Way not far from Heroes Garden and quickly got his business up and running again.
The building on Staghunters Way occupied the same location as the former stables of the ill-fated Deepwinter noble family. They all perished in various acts of treachery during the Guildwars of the mid–13 century DR, with some of them murdered in the stables. Their ghosts manifested as spots of cold or motes of fear that meandered through the shop, although not usually during business hours. Occasionally, customers would encounter one of these apparitions and the brave ones would demand a discount for their discomfort.