The Seven Roses Monastery was a monastery in the city of Pe Nok in Tu Lung in the mid–14 century DR. It was home to the Brotherhood of the Seven Roses.While Shichi is a paladin of Amaterasu, it is unknown if Amaterasu is venerated by the Seven Roses Monastery as a whole, or only by Shichi.
It was led by the Grand Master of Flowers. A senior monk was the Master of the East Wind.These ranks are actually the level titles of the Monk class in Players Handbook 1st edition, page 31. An itinerant monks who wandered the land away from the monastery was known as a "walking initiate". Women were not generally permitted to join.
By their highest laws, the monks were bound to maintain peace and tranquility above all else.
The monks training in martial arts.
After Hai Chi bashed his wife Shichi No Ken and murdered their child, Shichis father took her to the Seven Roses Monastery, where she could recover and be hidden from Hai Chis familys spies. While women were rarely permitted in a monastery, his money more than made up for it. Over time, the monks healed Shichis injuries and helped her recover from her trauma. And they taught her strength. Shichi trained under the Master of the East Wind, learning martial arts and acquiring the mental discipline needed.
Then, after nearly a decade of hunting, Hai Chis spies located Shichi and he led thirty of his liegemen in an assault on the monastery, seeking to murder his former wife and the monks whod given her sanctuary. But while the junior monks were swiftly defeated by his warriors, the masters handily overcame them, though they left Hai Chi himself untouched, granting Shichi the right to face her abuser. They fought and she at last slew him.
In short order, Emperor Pos soldiers arrived to investigate, but the monks delayed them—requiring the soldiers to seek the permission of the Grand Master of Flowers to enter the monastery—making time to collect Shichis possessions and for her to escape. It was not necessary theyd come to stop Hai Chi and arrest him for this crimes. They were even grateful Shichis slaying of him in battle saved them the need for a shameful trial and public execution.
Though Shichi was permitted to stay at the Seven Roses Monastery, she declined, asking instead to become a walking initiate. The Grand Master of Flowers granted this and even gifted her with enchanted weapons, a magical katana and a magical bow. Armed thus, she wandered the land as a champion of good.