The Sheaf of Wheat was an inn in the town of Ghars, Cormyr, in the mid–14 century DR. It was owned by Lukas Spoondrift.
The inn had a kitchen and a buttery. There was also a small meeting room with fireplace and comfortable chairs and a large room for hosting events.
Volo described the Sheaf of Wheat as "forgettable, but not dreadful".
The food was equally average, but passed for fine dining in Ghars. Spoondrift tended to cut corners and use cheaper meats, such as mutton in the lamb stew and using horse meat in place of beef or stag meat. Other regular dishes available included butter-tomato soup. During the Merchants Guild reception, there was also Beef and Oysters Barnabas (the imported chefs and oversight on Spoondrift helped). 
While it was not simply a place for drinking, there was a bar for patrons. Drinks during the reception included Westgate Ruby, Suzale, and Elminsters Choice.
Lukas Spoondrift and his wife lived in a room at the inn.
Jasper once worked as a slop boy (dishwasher and waste remover) at the Sheaf of Wheat. He slept on a pallet in the buttery.
Having been "hired" by Benelaius as his servant, Jasper told Spoondrift he was leaving his slop boy job in Eleint of the . Spoondrift was enraged by the news and shouted at him until he left.
Over time, part of the inns roof became damaged and, as Spoondrift left it too long to get it fixed, leaks caused the beams and joists below to rot. Finally, he hired the local roofer Rolf to repair it in around Ches of the . While working on it, Rolf left heavy boxes of wood shingles on the roof overnight and around midnight the rotten beams broke and the boxes fell through the roof and attic floor, and rained shingles down on Spoondrift and his wife in their bed. While Spoondrift blamed Rolf, Rolf denied the rotten beams were his fault. Rolfs father, also a roofer, offered to share the cost of rebuilding, but Spoondrift refused. They took the matter to a magistrate in Wheloon, and argued about it through the rest of the year. 
In summer, hosting the annual meeting of the Merchants Guild in the , the local merchant Barthelm Meadowbrock arranged for the guild members and their retinues to be lodged in both the Sheaf of Wheat and the Silver Scythe, since there were too many for one inn to accommodate. Barthelm also supervised the stocking of its larder and cellar and brought chefs from Suzail. The guild members arrived that afternoon and attended a grand reception in the Sheaf of Wheat starting at 7 oclock, with dining tables and buffets and drinks at the bar. It closed at ten oclock, officially, before most members hit the bars, but Meadowbrock and Tobald were forced to leave early to assist in the murder investigation.