The Shrine of Savras was a temple dedicated to Savras, god of fate and divination, located outside of Conyberry. It was the site of the last stand of the people of Conyberry when their town was destroyed by barbarians, and it remained in ruins as of the late 15 century DR.
The temple sat in a wide field at the northern edge of the foothills of the Sword Mountains. It lay at the end of a  dirt trail heading south from Conyberry.
The shrine was built of stone. It consisted of a grand main hall with two smaller wings. The main hall had a peaked roof rising to  high at the center, with a belfry sitting in the middle. The wings roofs only rose to . Visitors were housed in the western wing, while the clergy made their home in the eastern wing.
The temple grounds surrounding the structure were grassy and square-shaped, and held spaces to house and feed animals. The grounds were surrounded by a thick stone wall with circular towers at each corner. The dirt trail connecting the temple to Conyberry passed through a fortified gate in the north wall. In the late 15 century DR, these walls lay in ruins, the gate was broken, and all towers save for the northwestern one had collapsed.
The main hall of the shrine was a vaulted chamber supported by two rows of massive columns. A hole in the center of the ceiling gave a clear view into the belfry, and a massive door in the southern wall led to a semicircular chapel. This chapel contained four narrow windows above a stone altar adorned with a carving of an eye. Touching this altar could bestow visions of other places and perhaps other times.
In the late 15 century DR, the interior of the shrine was crumbling and filled with dust and bones. No rope or easy means of access to the belfry had survived.
The temples location on an open plain made it easy to see enemies approaching, and it was built to be defensible. The walls surrounding the grounds were  high and  thick, and the gate included an iron portcullis.
Following the Spellplague, Conyberry attracted the ire of the Uthgardt Gray Wolf tribe, who were frightened by the appearance of people and places from Abeir in the region around the town. The priests and seers of Savras at the Shrine foresaw the barbarians coming attack, and offered to evacuate both the townsfolk and their valuables to the temple. While not all of the people accepted the offer, much of Conyberrys gold was brought to the temple to be hidden. The priests helped the townsfolk to melt the gold and cast it into a bell, which was then painted to look like copper and hung in the temples bell tower. When the barbarians finally attack Conyberry, they not only razed the town but tracked the survivors to the temple, where they laid siege to the walls and ultimately massacred both the townsfolk and the clergy. The gold, however, remained hidden in plain sight.
Over the decades, the ruined shrine would become home to many monsters. These wererats were displaced by a clan of orcs who had been driven from their own home at Icespire Hold by the white dragon Cryovain. These orcs were eventually joined by a couple of wandering ogres.
The gold remained well hidden and undiscovered in the form of the temples bell despite rumors persisting even into the late 15 century DR that the folk of Conyberry had hidden their wealth in the Shrine of Savras.