Private residence
Silavenes, formerly known as the Marblehearth, was a villa in the Castle Ward of Waterdeep that had been converted into a rather popular festhall and gambling den around the late 14 century DR.
Silavenes was the first building on the left when ascending the steep gravel road that was the Cliffride. Silavenes neighbors included the Fair Winds on the opposite side of the lane and down a few paces, and further up the road was the New Olamn school for bards.  For many years, one of the Walking Statues was perched atop Gull Leap at the end of Julthoon Street. By the Year of the Tankard, 1370 DR, the statue known as the Sahuagin Humbled, was practically in Silavenes back yard, kneeling toward the House of Heroes to the north.
273px|Map showing location of the Sahuagin Humbled, circa 1492 DR. Click to enlarge.
In winter, the Cliffride was frequently blocked by snowfall, but with the establishment of New Olamn and the popularity of Silavenes, the road was regularly cleared by the Loyal Order of Street Laborers.
Silavenes was formerly a villa known as Marblehearth and was a three-story sprawling building made of stone.
This festhall was a popular casino for various types of gambling. It also provided escorts and had courtesans on staff.
As of the 1370s DR, Silavenes had human guards at the front doors and the back doors were enchanted to become three helmed horrors if the locks or hinges were tampered with, either by magical or forceful means. The doors had armor plating and the guardians would also appear if the outer layer was breached.
This structure was originally a villa christened Marblehearth, built by a wealthy Waterdhavian noble family many years before the Year of the Prince, 1357 DR. The location was tucked away from the bustling city and easily defensible, but was constantly exposed to wind and storms from the sea and almost permanently damp from the moisture brought in by those winds. When the weather turned cold, everything became covered in treacherous ice. The owners quickly grew tired of the cold and damp and moved to warmer climes while renting out the villa for 25 to 50 gold pieces per month, depending on the season.
Sometime around the Year of the Banner, 1368 DR, Marblehearth was bought by Setara bint Aasim, a wealthy money-changer from far-off Zakhara who came to Waterdeep via Calimshan and established Silavenes.
The mysterious owner of Silavenes, Setara bint Aasim, was rumored to have two genies at her beck and call.