The Sisterhood of Pastorals was a convent dedicated to Chauntea in the city of Innarlith on the Lake of Steam in the mid–14 century DR.
It was located in the third quarter of Innarlith. It was one major thoroughfare to the east of where the Golden Road passed through the city, near the north gate. The fourth quarter was immediately to its east.
It was covered with windows and uninterrupted panes of glass. This allowed for sunlight to enter for use in growing plants in the interior of the structure.
It served as both a convent for priestesses of Chauntea and as a temple devoted to her. The sisters here taught people how to farm and grow plants. They also grew their own food in the structure and gave it to the needy for free.
This line was repeated when those serving at the convent served food to those who came "Please accept this with the prayers of the Pastorals that you will find your way under the blessed eyes of the Earth Mother".
In the 1370s DR, the Sisterhood, which normally stayed away from city politics in Innarlith, chose to get involved when large numbers of deceased people, particularly the poor of the fourth quarter, had been animated as undead zombies by the Thayan enclave in order to serve in construction for both the canal project and work within the city itself. Some members of the Sisterhood went out secretly to destroy the zombies. Two of them were killed in the course of this in 1373 DR by a Cyricist cleric. The mother of the convent came to meet with Ransar Pristoleph over this, and the Ransar promised to help, although the zombies were in fact being used under his orders. 
Ivar Devorast, the chief builder for the canal project was treated at this place for injuries in 1374 DR after he was assaulted by Willem Korvan. The sisters correctly identified a rotting disease he got from the attack to be related to undead, which led to proving that Korvan was in fact undead.
Phyrea, the wife of Ransar Pristoleph was treated at this place for injuries in 1374 DR after she was almost killed during the explosions that demolished the canal in that year. 
* Halina Rymüt-Sverdej