The Smiling Satyr was a good-quality tavern just outside the city of Loudwater in the Delimbiyr Vale in the mid–14 to late 15 centuries DR.
It was located around eight farms southwest of Loudwater, on top of a hill with oaks and beeches. On either side of the hill were two large fields owned by the taverns proprietor these could be used by caravans for camping and were equipped with outhouse privies and firepits, a supply of free firewood, and a freshwater stream that ran by both fields.
By the side of the winding lane that led up to the tavern, there was a wooden statue of a dancing satyr with pipes. It even "played" soft piping tunes when someone came within , thanks to a permanent magic mouth spell.
The taproom held two huge hearths, standing on either side of a flagstone floor. At the hearths, it was common for patrons to cook their bread, cheese, and sausage on long forks, and also to dry their feet, boots, and socks.
The walls were decorated with antique weapons, broken shields, skulls of monsters, and other trophies of adventures past. Notably, on the wall behind the bar were two crossed magic battleaxes of dancing, which could animate only when ordered to by Arvyn. He used these to defend himself and his staff.
In the 1480s DR, near the taproom was a curtained-off cloakroom. Within was a big wooden trunk that was actually bolted to the floor and held a secret passage leading to stairs down to a secret cellar, some  to side. This held a teleportation circle forming a network linking Moongleam Tower in Everlund, a stable house in Mirabar, the attic of a rowhouse in Neverwinter, a crypt in the City of the Dead in Waterdeep, and a villa in Yartar. The teleportation circle was attended by Revil Slombarr, who had a bed beneath the stairs.
Thanks to its campsite, the Smiling Satyr was favorite place for mercenaries, guides, and adventurers to gather.
It was owned and run by Arvyn Umbryl, a former adventurer, by 1365 DR and through 1370 DR.
In the late 1480s DR, it was run by Gharwin Umbryl, presumably a descendant. He was sympathetic to the Harpers and allowed the tavern to be used for Krowen Valharrows teleportation network.
The Smiling Satyr was the center of a hundred stories of buried loot, hidden stashes, and treasure maps. While most might be untrue, it still promised much wealth to those lucky enough to know where to search for it.
According to a local tale, on nights of the full moon, the satyr statue would, rather than play music, whisper and share dark secrets of treasure and treachery.