The Stag Triumphant was a sophisticated inn, the best in Mosstone, second only to the popular and expensive Oak-Fathers Boon in the late 14 century DR.
The Stag Triumphant was inside an elegant building of dark-wood panels. The establishment was nestled between the Oak-Fathers Boon and the significantly cheaper Rumnthoryghs Welcoming House in the luxury and quality of services it provided.
The Stags interior was filled with old but expensive high-quality dark leather furniture. The walls were draped in luscious curtains that stretched along seemingly endless dark-carpeted hallways and passages.
The staff of the Stag wore pristine uniforms and were skilful and proper. They greeted travelers, guests, and unusual-looking foreigners with the same comfort and as they did familiar locals. The staffs polish was so they memorized guests faces, names, and preferences even if they showed up every few years. The personal consisted of old and friendly faces recognizable by merchants that frequented the Stag on their travels. But the inn also annually hired fresh young attractive lads and lasses.
The inn offered lodgings, three rich meals, snacks, as a multitude of alcoholic beverages. The typical morningfeast at the Stag Triumphant consisted of omelets, stuffed with chopped sausage, bacon, and topped with onions and peppers. The inns highsunfeast was a "meal in a bowl." The bowls served were usually stews accompanied by breads, garlic, and herb butters. The stews varied from generously spiced eel and mushroom bowls, honey and lemon chicken drenched in thick greenshoots soup, or even especially exquisite oyster and almond stew. Evenfeasts were a sight to behold at the Stag. The dining hall was filled with spit-roasting beasts, such as oxen, boars, and turtles. The main spectacle of evenfeasts, however, was the dish with the same name as the inn, "stag triumphant," a fully roasted and stuffed young male deer. The dining continued late into the night.
To cap the night, the Stag offered platters of smoked and salted ham and accompanied with drinks. The alcohol selection at the Stag consisted of expensive sherries, cordials, zzar, as well as wines and beers.