Stag Steads was a hunting lodge in Cormyr.
The lodge was located near Mouth o Gargoyles, not far from the road.
The lodge was built into a hillside, with trees planted ahead of it to better conceal the location and patches of moss over the wood, so it blended into the forest quite well.
A circular central room contained a hearth big enough to roast three boar or deer at once.
The place was cool, dim, and damp, other than the central room.
The lodge was used by the Obarskyr royal family, as well as the three royal noble clans of the Crownsilvers, Huntsilvers, and Truesilvers, and others by invitation only. Being invited to hunt there was something of a coming-of-age tradition among young noblemen. In addition, Vangerdahast had begun holding conferences for War Wizards there during the mid-to-late 1300s DR, and in the 1360s DR, Princess Alusair Obarskyr and some of the younger Huntsilvers would take lovers there for a few days, so many non-noble guests had come to spend some nights there and enjoyed the privilege of staying and hunting at Stag Steads.
Most visitors spent no more than six or seven days in the lodge, and a few up to a tenday. Anyone who tried staying beyond this limit would be asked to leave, politely at first, and then by Royal Magician in person.
Despite the frequency of hunting, the hunting was still good, partially because of a local deepspawn placed there by the orders of the Royal Mage.
People staying there were able to go up to a side window and order a plate of food for 1 gp, wine for 4 gp, and a flagon of regular ale for 2 gp in the 1360s DR. The platters had a unique design, and were the customers to keep.
Those meals consisted of fern-and-fiddlehead soup, morels, and other vegetables from the forest, served with meat from roast boar, venison, or grouse. The menu seldom varied during the late 14 century DR, but the cook was excellent and found ways to add variety, while the wine cellar was top-notch in Volos appreciation. Meals were free to guests.
Most guests left the steads with barrels of salted meat, whether hunted themselves or by the guides, and sometimes with a mounted head. Locals were available to stuff and mount heads for 5–10 gp each.
Guests were free to wander the area as they willed, but non-regulars were recommended to hire a guide. There were official guides, marked by their badges, who were available to aid anyone in hunting and forestry. Their fares were 1 to 6 gp daily, depending on who and for what. For an extra gold piece or two, they would also guide their charge to some nearby ruins.
A gate inside a rear room connected the place with the Palace of the Purple Dragon in Suzail, and was often used to pass stones with messages wrapped around them through, but also royals, War Wizards, and retainers.
When senior War Wizards were in attendance, they were quick in resorting to magically enhanced interrogation to determine both powers and intentions of travelers arriving without invitation. Other War Wizards scried on anyone who lingered.
Originally it had been a druids home, then an ogres keep, and then a hunting lodge. The lodge was forfeited to the Crown after the treason of the last Goldfeather noble, who was executed by King Dhalmass Obarskyr in the .
In the , before teleporting Caladnei and Myrmeen Lhal to Vangerdahast Aeiulvanas sanctum, Elminster Aumar claimed they were headed to Stag Steads.
The strongest recommendations for hiring a guide came from Bald Jhawn. The best of the badged foresters was generally considered Tlumbel Droun other names included Ithaglor Bruensal, Dreth Milyntyr, and Doalogh Dultor. A local, working two cottages away from the Steads, and the best at mounting heads, was known as Old Martha.
There were often hunts for a "Ghost Stag", a giant white stag said to vanish when cornered. The War Wizards insisted the Ghost Stag was psionic, rather than undead.