The Stormhaven House was a secret training academy for novice War Wizards in the mid–14 century DR.
The manor stood near Espar, overlooking it from a plateau due north-west. The tranquil woods and meadows nearby were owned by Cormyr, and marked an intersection of the Kings Forest and the foothills of Storm Horns.
A nearby shop, Ondrars Scroll Shop, provided some resources that would have come in handy to the operations at the manor. Its powerful spells were bought out by the college, lest they became available to the public.
The manor was fortified with basic protections. Magical wards and powerful creatures provided an additional layer of security.
Hippogriffs were available to certain War Wizards and court officials.
Here, War Wizards were trained in the ways of Cormyrean history, prevalent issues, and general politics. Magical instruction was also provided for new spells and proper usage of magical items.
The War Wizards were subjected to stressful situations akin to what they may face in their future roles. This covered casting battle-spells in ill conditions, improvising with unconventional material components, and learning how some common changes to somatic & verbal components could impact spellcraft. Heavy emphasis was also laid on the unconventional uses of certain spells, learning how to combine common spells, and learning what happens should combat spells collide. A War Wizard also learnt to predict what spell an enemy may cast based on the material components they pulled out.
The trainees were accompanied by teachers and healed if necessary, but never pampered. They were pushed towards perfection via practice, so they would never falter or fumble in hesitation. When he still served as the Royal Magician, Vangerdahast Aeiulvana would visit to render discipline as needed. He and the next Royal Magician, Caladnei, strove to ensure that the Stormhaven House remained a place of training, and not one of frivolous ceremonies, pomp, or hierarchies.
The true purpose of Stormhaven was hidden from the townsfolk of Espar, but there were some secrets, that remained even from the War Wizards who attended it.
Unbeknownst to most, experienced instructors at Stormhaven placed or fortified geas spells on the wizards in training to ensure their allegiance to the Dragon Throne. Vangerdahast had shifted the geas spells loyalty to himself, but Caladnei had reworked them to ensure loyalty to the Dragon Throne itself - not a specific Monarch or herself.