The Stronghold was a small keep that once was used as a monastery and a hidden temple of Bhaal, abandoned during the Time of Troubles and later gifted to the Hero of Daggerford in 1372 DR.
The so-called Stronghold was built across the Trade Way from the town of Liams Hold.
The keeps structure was roughly a rectangular area of carved stone with tall windowless walls. The monastery appeared more like an imposing stronghold than a religious site that could weather a siege. The main entrance was locked with a singular key, and the door was gated by a large slab of stone, pulled up by a pulley mechanism once unlocked. One could access a gorgeous view of the valley from the keeps top. A secret tunnel allowed discrete entry to the agents and monks who inhabited the site however, it was collapsed and unusable by 1372 DR.
310x310px
Past the entrance gate laid a huge candle-lit hall. Several monk quarters were adjacent to the main hall and a spiral staircase that let up and down. Each level of the staircase housed many old bookshelves and eventually led to the monasterys rooftop. The structure had a deep underground hall used as the temple by the monks and agents of the evil deity - Bhaal. The altar was carved out of a single slab of metal. A thin sharp-taloned grasping hand stretched out of the altar as if an unknown beast was trapped within the shrine.
The shrine held a secret passage locked by the key that belonged to the temples head priest. Once unlocked, it led to a long hall with two heavy metallic gates on each side. This hidden area was the temples vault, filled with the keeps valuables, magic items, gems, and spell scrolls.
The single tower of the monastery led directly to a round library room with the carving of Bhaals holy symbol on the floor. The library had a single wooden door that led to the bedroom of the monasterys head priest.
One of the undead Bhaalist worshipers.|343x343px
The priests of Bhaal who lived in the monastery were returned to a semblance of life as yellowed decrepit undead skeletons after sacrificing themselves during the Time of Troubles. The undead creatures were scattered across the basement temple, ready to be reanimated by dark magics and attack any blasphemous this defiling the old temple. The undead were led by Xatuum, an undead gaunt intelligent creature who revered his evil god even after death.
Another cleric of note was Niaal Sortan, the cruel wielder of the Black Hammer.
The hidden vault, behind the undercrofts altar of Bhaal was guarded by three gargoyles that were ready to rend any looter.