century DR
The Tavern of the Garden was a popular and cozy tavern and eatery in the city of Ravens Bluff in the mid-to-late 14 century DR.
The Tavern of the Garden was located in the fine Sixstar neighborhood in the Uptown District of Ravens Bluff in the Vast.
The tavern was a spacious three-story building surrounded by a small green plot of land and encircled by a decorative fence covered in flowers and vines. Each plant was carefully planted and woven through the faces trellises. The taverns first floor was built of stone with two upper floors made out of dark wood.
Typically, for such establishments, the tavern served food and drink. Guests were greeted at the entrance by a hostess, who asked them to keep their weapons sheathed and guided them to available tables, be they large communal tables in the main taproom
Some of the foods served included a variety of meats, fruits, bread, and some more unique treats. Drinks varied from pitchers of water, a selection of juices, ales, and wines.
The Tavern of the Garden was run by Charles Morden, a successful gardener who offered his master services to the nobility of Ravens Bluff. When Charles died at the age of eighty-three, circa the , soon after the The Three Women War ended, his daughter, Shauna Morden, inherited Charless small estate that included the Tavern of the Garden, a small vinery outside Ravens Bluff and another vinery in a valley outside the Dragon Falls. Shauna promptly took over the business and aimed to be a success. She renovated the Tavern of the Garden and hosted a grand re-opening evening of free food and drinks in hopes of securing Ravenaar patronage.
During the re-opening, Shauna Morden personally greeted arriving guests and individuals in line for admission, playing the role of a hostess. During the event, Shauna gathered a group of adventurers of the Living City and offered them a lucrative job – to investigate the family vinery outside Dragon Falls. Unlike other parts of the business, Shauna did not know of the vinerys existence and wanted to have it running, producing wine for the eatery, or getting in contact with its current managers, whom she did not know. Subsequently, the adventurers discovered its master vintner maedar Vorlon, who had claimed the vinery a decade prior. It was believed that the heroes negotiated Shauna and maedars cooperation and profitable future together, one way or another.