The Temple of the Scale was an underground temple located under the Dragonspine Mountains.
The temples entrance was hidden below a menhir circle, protected by a complex system of shifting stones.
The temple was built using druidic magic and kobold labor.
The temples only inhabitants were undead druids, who were the last remnants of the circle who built it. As such, the interior of the place was completely dark and filled with an eerie silence.
A plan of the temple.
The temple comprised multiple areas, each with a dedicated purpose.
The main hall 
This massive room served as a place for druids to eat together and perform ceremonial events, as well as cast ritual magic. It was supported by three pillars carved in the likeness of chromatic dragons supporting the ceiling. The room was decorated on its walls and ceiling by colorful mosaics depicting flying dragons, and its doors were painted in bright colors akin to chromatic dragons scales. The frame of the door across the room from the entrance was made of painted stone carvings depicting Tiamat, the Dragon Queen.
 The living area 
Made of quarters and a kitchen, the living area was kept perfectly ordered by the druids of the circle. Stone shelves carved into the walls were used by the inhabitants to store household items and produces.
 The crypt 
This is the place where the order burned their dead and buried their bones. A pool of water in the center of the room connected to an underground lake, providing fresh water to the druids. The walls and pillars of the room were decorated using the ashes and bones of the dead.
 The circle of worship 
This was the place used by the circle to worship and perform rituals dedicated to Tiamat. In front of the entrance, a massive door of hammered red metal was embossed with the likeness of a rearing red dragon wearing an amulet&mdashwhich was actually the key to open it.
The room was flanked by four stairs leading to smaller shrines containing altars, each dedicated to a different color associated with chromatic dragons black, blue, green, and white.
 The reliquary 
Covered in red and orange tiles, the reliquary was built by the druids to protect Tiamats scale, their most prized possession.
The altars around the circle of worship, in which parts of the key to the reliquary were kept, were all protected by powerful magical traps.
The temple was built by the Circle of the Scale in an effort to lure and enslave nearby dragons. Their efforts proved meaningless when the red dragon Scorlworyx and her armies attacked the circle and put an end to their projects&mdashand their lives.