The Temple of the Forgotten God was an isolated subterranean temple found in the Spine of the World mountains dedicated to the Forgotten God. It was believed to have been the resting place of the Heartstone Gem as of the late 13 century DR.
It was located in a canyon east of Kuldahar, nearly two days travel away by walking.
thumb|right|250px|The entrance of the Temple of the Forgotten God.
The temple consisted of two underground levels, carved from a naturally-formed cave systems in the mountains. Four massive statues of robed figures stood just outside the temples entranceway.
The first level of the temple featured a large foyer that housed another large statue of a robed figure. Rather than standing as sentries, this statue remained seated with its hands in its lap, palms upturned. To the left of the foyer were several smaller rooms including a meeting area, storage space, and a dedicated library. To the right were several hallways that connected to a descending staircase and the temples second level.
The staircase opened into a wide, elliptical room decorated with elaborate stonework, which opened up to a long hallway adorned with a half-dozen support columns. Turquoise-colored tiles were used to adorn the floor tiles, walls, and the support columns in the hallway. At the end of the hall were a set of massive double doors that closed off a naturally-formed passageway.
This last passageway opened up unto a raised platform set within an expansive cave. An altar and accompanying solid gold pedestal—which housed the Heartstone Gem—was constructed atop the platform and two firepits were built some ways away on either side. There appeared to be some form of volcanic activity or continuous flame within this cave.
It was illuminated by wide, cylindrical braziers and torchs set into wall sconces.
The temple was was considered a holy place by the "children of the Forgotten God" and their verbeeg guardians.
The temple was rumored to have been founded sometime after the Heartstone Gem was stolen by a young acolyte that studied druidism in Kuldahar.
As of the late 13 century DR, the Temple of the Forgotten God was inhabited by the cultists and their verbeeg protectors. In the , the temple was assaulted by followers of the goddess Talona and many of the giant-kin were slain. The Heartstone Gem was unfortunately stolen away from the temple.
* Red Toe, the verbeeg that got away.