The Temple of Ubtao, also known as the Maze of Life, was the very center of the hidden Tabaxi city of Mezro in Chult.
The center of Mezro was a round cobblestone plaza with the magnificent Temple of Ubtao standing in the very middle with four avenues stretching from the center to the citys rim, separating it into quarters Agricultural, Residential, Market, and Scholars Quarters.
The temple was an intricately constructed building of nine stories rising above the ground. Many flying buttresses accentuated the temples architecture. The temple had rows of large windows of stained glass and a glistening golden dome crowing the structure.
The magical walls of the temple had a disorienting effect on outsiders. Whatever part of the city they were looking at the temple, it always appeared to have only one wall and looked exactly the same from any angle. These magical walls were constructed using triangular crystal bricks dovetailing together into one smooth surface with one lonely door leading inside. Upon closer examination, the crystals of the wall appeared fragile and delicate as the finest Sembian lace.
The enchantments of the temples wall could enthrall onlookers. If affected by the images in the crystals, the viewed could stand entranced staring at the walls until forced to look away. The images that were created on the wall reflected the onlookers deepest desires.
Due to the divine origin of the temple, any person or thing within its walls was shielded from scrying.
Past the lone Temple door laid the Hall of Champions, a long hallway decorated with glossy black stone statues and pillars on both sides. The statues depicted deceased barae of Mezro, the paladins of Ubtao, and guardians of the city. The statues included the original seven barae who died and having only empty pedestals for those still living.
The Hall of Champions ended in a black archway, a magical gate that allowed passage into one of the countless rooms Ubtao built for his worshipers. Reaching the rooms via the portal was easy. One just needed to think of the destination. If a person passing through the gate had no destination in mind, they were transported into a random room within the temple, such as libraries, kitchens, bedchambers, storages, the meditation hall, healers apothecary, or the Kings audience chamber.
The audience chamber of King Osaw I, whos ruled Mezro for over fifteen hundred years in 1362 DR, was a spacious triangular hall with walls of stained glass that had sun pouring through during any time of the day. The enchanted mosaic depicting Mezro and its every inhabitant in real-time was the chambers floor. The throne stood in the center of the triangular chamber.
The only room within the Temple of Ubtao was the barado. The archway in the Hall of Champions never randomly led to that part of the structure. The barado was the dark audience hall for communing with Ubtao directly and was never used unless a new bara was to take the gods test.
The temple offered many services to citizens and travelers and was open to them all day and night. The clerics provided guests with healing in exchange for a donation to the temple. Servants and bara of Ubtao were healed for free. Travelers were never allowed to sleep in the temple, especially without the Kings permission, and were always removed from its grounds.
Members of Sseth, Thard Harr, and Ubtao clergy were allowed to worship in the Temple of Ubtao. The temple held no organized services or ceremonies, apart from selecting the next bara.
All dead of Mezro were interred in the Temple of Ubtao.
The Temple of Ubtao, along with the city of Mezro, was created in -2637 DR by the deity himself. Over the centuries, the temple survived wars, goblin attacks, dinosaurs, and many other threats.
In 1362 DR, the temples barado became a secure hiding spot for the evil and deadly artifact known as the Ring of Winter. The ring was briefly used by Ras Tfima in an attempt to rescue Negus Kwalu and Theron Silvermace from a tribe of ravenous Batiri goblins. Attempting to summon a centralized blizzard, Tfima froze the jungles for miles around and made it pelt the area with snow for three days. Scared of the rings power, he deposited it in the only place that was inaccessible to almost everyone - the barado.
The same year, rumors of the bizarre jungle blizzard brought two parties to Chult in search of the ring. Artus Cimber, an adventurer and a Harper, and his nemesis, Kaverin Ebonhand, the Butcher of Tantras. In his quest, Kaverin allied with the Batiri queen Mbobo and with her allied clans of Chultan goblins, aided by pterafolk, they laid siege to Mezro. During the open deadly conflict, the Temple of Ubtao served as shelter and hospital for hurt defenders and civilians of the hidden city. Artus found out of the ring being hidden in the barado and was adamant about risking his life trying to wrestle the artifact from the god himself. Artus avoided being taken to the afterlife for violating the temple. He directly interacted with many avatars of Ubtao and passed the bara test. Artus was to draw the maze of his life. He drew his past and came to the epiphany that he cant make an error drawing the future anything he were to draw would be correct. Artus received the ability to control the Ring of Winters evil powers, becoming the guardian of the city.
With the artifacts power, the tide of battle was turned in favor of Mezro, and the city survived another strife. Weeks later, when the city was rebuilt, Mezro held the first official barae ceremony in a very long time. A young girl named Fipya was granted the power to control plants and set to restore the citys waning food storages.
In the late 15 century DR, Temple of Ubtao, along with the rest of Mezro, was thought to have been destroyed in the Spellplague of 1385 DR–1395 DR. In truth, the city avoided the hellish cataclysm with the powers of the citys barae. They were guided by Ubtao and moved the entire city to a paradise demiplane. The only person to know of that was Artus Cimber, who was left behind after the citys "destruction."