The Cave of Memories was a mysterious cave under the protection of Oghma, Lord of All Knowledge, located at the summit of a rocky hill in the village of Bistals Bottom, Turmish.
The Cave of Memories was accessible via a steep tunnel shaft that descended from the top of the hill. Its depths held strange magics that rewarded anyone who descended into the heart of the cavern. The magical boons were visions from ancient and often forgotten pasts. Usually, these visions were dramatic events such as deaths of regents or renowned heroes, grand battles of old, the creation of legendary artifacts, or the hiding of treasures. These visions tended to be overpowering and disorienting, but once they passed, the recipient could perfectly recall the entirety of what had been witnessed until their dying breath. Once the visions were over, the Cave of Memories spirited its visitors away to a random remote place somewhere far away in Faerûn. Sages claimed this effect was similar to the teleport without error spell.
The caves magics had no limitations, and it could grant multiple visions to a single person if they were able or willing to return. Despite that, many Sembian scholars claimed that the Cave of Memories only granted "one vision to a soul."
Throughout the history of Bistals Bottom, many mercenary companies, adventurers, wizards, and priests attempted to claim the hill with the Caves entrance as their own. By Oghmas will, none were successful, eventually being found aimlessly wandering the area around the village, affected by feeblemind spells. Through the years, many village children ended up wandering into the cavern only to disappear, never to be seen again. This gave the Cave of Memories and its hill a reputation of being haunted.
In the mid-to-late 14 century DR, a priestess of Oghma named Shaeril kept an eye on the Cave of Memories. It was believed that she was empowered by her god to easily repel bands of armed warriors and powerful wizards who sought to claim the caverns powers as their own. She eagerly discussed the visions and aided adventurers who managed to return to Bistals Bottom after being magicked away across the continent. Shaeril helped them identify the nature of their visions, inadvertently aiding them in coming into a fortune.