The Baker Boys, or 1 Curios Circle, was a bakery located in the bustling Merchants District of Ravens Bluff in the late 14 century DR.
The Baker Boys was located on the tiny Curios Circle cul-de-sac off of Merchants Way in the Market District. It was surrounded by a nest of five other shops a perfumery called Bouquet Boutique Ephrams Antiquities Madame LaTachias, a fortune tellers parlor a magic miscellany shop called Malishars Magicks and Wyckes, a chandler. The Baker Boys was the first shop on the left side when entering the cul-de-sac, with Ephrams being its next-door neighbor.
The owners and the titular Baker Boys were a strong couple. Rojak Hammersmith was a beardless fun-loving sober dwarf and his partner, Culwen Furryfeet, a typically mischievous prankster hin. Both men were kind and friendly, making fish pastries, pies, and donuts daily, while occasionally bursting into impromptu food fights.
The Baker Boys was not seen as a respectable business by its neighbors. William Wycke of the candle shop thought the owners to be too irresponsible to be good businessmen and overly boisterous in the early mornings, but flamboyant Serge of the Bouquet Boutique thought the couple to be "a blast."
In the , many smaller businesses were targeted by a group of criminals demanding protection money. To make things even more preposterous, these bandits wore the faces of renowned heroes and adventurers of the Living City. These criminals—Marella, Elizza, Moamar, and Rundell—were members of the warlord Myrkyssa Jelans army that waged war on the Vast just a year prior. They used a magic wand that let them take on other peoples guises. The criminals struck at The Baker Boys and the rest of the shops in its cul-de-sac. Their extortion resulted in Malishars Magicks being a burnt-out husk. The Baker Boys lost 500 gold ravens that they paid for "protection" and 300 more in destroyed merchandise. Despite the loss, Culwen and Rojak remained loud and happy, aiming to survive the best they could. Two days later, both gave an interview to a group of heroes who investigated the racketeering and eventually ended the threat to the district.