The Thirsty Sailor was an infamous dive bar in the Dock Ward of Waterdeep.
thumb|273px|A circa 1367 DR map depicting the Thirsty Sailor.
This tavern was situated on the eastern corner of the cramped intersection of Fish Street and Ship Street, across from the Ships Prow. Like much of the neighborhood surrounding it, the tavern stood above some of the oldest sections of the sewers of Waterdeep and had some kind of opening to them in its back alley.
The Thirsty Sailor stood three stories tall. It was a rather poorly built establishment that looked ugly on the outside, with many of the walls being boarded over or displaying burn scars. Originally its bottom floor was fieldstone with windows and its top floor was wooden, but over the years bar brawls had damaged the establishment and facilitated hasty repairs with mismatched materials. The windows on its second floor were barred.
The interior of this tavern was equally as battered as its exterior. It was rather ill-lit, having very few candles, and tables were crowded close together.
The Thirsty Sailor was the spitting image of a stereotypical sailors bar, with dirty halls quite noisome from frequent drunken brawls and bawdy songs. The air was thick was the smell of stale beer, sour wine, sweat, and tar. Most of the clientele were male due to this atmosphere, though women of a tough hard-drinking sort could also be found there.
Rooms at this tavern were most often rented out by low lives plotting some form of clumsy crime or smuggling deal.
This tavern served strong alcohols that were not watered down. These included beer for one copper piece a tankard, whiskey for three copper pieces, and firewine for one silver piece. In the late 15 century DR, they expanded to serving ale.
Additionally, the Thirsty Sailor rented out rooms on the second floor at a cost of one gold piece per evening or four gold pieces for a night. These rather dirty rooms lacked beds, lighting, locks, and sanitary facilities. Though their doors could be barred from the inside.
The proprietor of this establishment was Kaerovan Yuluth, a man who many rumors of ilicit activity surrounded. Whenever a corpse in the Thirsty Sailor needed to be disposed of, he would drag them out to the back alley and deposit them into the sewers.
He employed seven bouncers and six surly dwarven waiters. There were no women on staff, not even barmaids, nor were there any houseboys to clean up any messes.
In the mid 14 century DR there was a rumor that one of the bouncers at this tavern was secretly a doppelganger that would impersonate murdered patrons.