Well of Dragons, Backlands (temporarily)
Tiamats temple was an unholy fortress dedicated to the worship of Tiamat, the Queen of Dragons. Resting within her realm on the plane of Avernus on the Nine Hells, the temple briefly ascended to Toril at the Well of Dragons during the late 15 century DR.
The temple could be found in Tiamats Lair, the goddess divine realm in Avernus.
The layout of the temple vaguely resembled a five-pointed star, with five chapels built at each of the stars points around a central apse. Each chapel corresponded to one of the five colors of chromatic dragons that composed Tiamats physical form. Massive spires featuring angular architecture rose  above both the apse and the five surrounding chapels. The surrounding spires featured imposing, twisting steeples that came together to at the central spire.
The central spire rose another  above the point where all the spires met, terminating in a site referred to as the temples sanctuary.
The temple lacked any true interior, as no walls connected or closed off the five chapels or the spires above. There were no traditional means of conveyance to ascend the spires, such as staircases or ramps, and the temples heights could only be reached by some means of flight.
Despite the magnificence of its size and grand implications of its arrival to the Realms, Tiamats temple held an aura of bleak lifelessness,
In the 1480s DR, Red Wizards from Thay worked alongside the Cult of the Dragon to perform a powerful ritual that summoned Tiamats temple―and the goddess Tiamat herself―to the Well of Dragons in Faerûn. as sacrifice to the Dragon Queen.
The response to the Dragon Cults actions were profound. An enormous allied army assembled by the Council of Waterdeep descended upon the Well of Dragons.
Groups of adventurers including the Heroes of Sleeping Dragon Bridge defeated the Red Wizard that summoned Tiamat to her temple, and defended the clerics working with Linu Laneral to inflict vulnerability upon the Dragon Goddess. Eventually Tiamat was sent back down to the Nine Hells, and adventurers representing the Five Factions of the Sword Coast abducted Severin himself.
Within the hoard that was amassed by the Cult of the Dragon to appease Tiamat were the goddess orb of majesty. powerful enchanted cloaks associated with Lathander and the elven Seldarine, and the rare tome Icantations of the Dragon Queen.