century DR.
The Tomb of Damara was the name given to Damaras Castle long after its owner, wizard Lord Damaras, death.
The map of the Tomb of Damaras interior.|315x315px
Past the main door laid the castles central room with four doors that led to other rooms of the caste. To the left from the main entrance was a large room that once was guard barracks. And the door to the right from the gates led to a spacious shrine area with carved stone pillars. Due to the age and decay, it was not clear what deity the shrine was dedicated to originally. Although decaying, the altar still possessed some of its divine healing magic. The temple had one other door to the right from the entrance. It led to a clerics quarters that was converted into a prison and a torture chamber in the mid-14 century DR.
Straight across the hall from the main gate was a door that led to the castles small garden, with tiled ground, dead plants, and a fountain. The garden had only one more door which led to a storage area that held items such as rope, caskets of ale
The last door in the main hall led to the castle sub levels, dark veering tunnels that split into a shorter corridor to the left from the entrance that led to a valuables storage room. The tunnel continued forward and ended in another door. The treasure storage was a small long windowless room with lit torches on the walls. Across the hall from the storage room was a heavy metal door that led to a big room that in the 14 century was used as the ogre Bonegnashers chambers.
The hallways in the sub-level continued until they reached a small but coy kitchen area with a door that led to an armory, a room with a deep water well, and the room with a forge. The kitchen had a large wooden table, a fireplace, and numerous shelves.
 The forge room was expanded in the 14 century by the servants of the ogre, mining the tunnels in search of the hidden vault. The vault was indeed in the excavated area and was locked behind a magic door and an illusory wall. The vault itself was a gray stone room, lit with torches enchanted by the continual flame spell. At the far wall of the vault stood a carved stone throne with the mummified Damara himself sitting in it, surrounded by his magical treasures.
These 315x315px
In the early to the mid-14 century DR, the ruined castle was a home of an ogre chieftain Bonegnasher. Among his marauders were gnolls, kobolds, hobgoblins, orcs, goblins, lizard man cleric of Semuanya, and two pet wolves, Predator and Crusher
During that time, the marauders kept slaves, mostly humans, snatched off the roads of Shadowdale.
The fountain in the keeps garden at one point became home for a giant toad, A carrion crawler could be found in the tunnels under that castle, most often inside the treasure storeroom. The room with a well housed several giant bats. The armory held several bent pieces of armor and weapons all floating inside a hungry gelatinous cube.