The Triboar playhouse was a theater in the town of Triboar in the Dessarin Valley in the late 15 century DR.The name of this site is unknown in both the Honor Among Thieves movie and novelization. The name Triboar playhouse is taken from the [https//web.archive.org/web/20230125155752/https//www.gamestop.com/toys-games/board-games/products/monopoly-dungeons-and-dragons-honor-among-thieves-movie-edition-board-game/357169.html Monopoly Dungeons and Dragons Honor Among Thieves Movie Edition Board Game].
It was built with stone walls and wooden beams supported the peaked roof, which included a skylight.
The theater was small and shabby. Illumination was provided by a chandelier like an iron wagon wheel topped with candles.
The stage was framed by split arches, with a backcloth bearing a sun-like design. Around the base were moldings of the towns insignia displaying three boars heads face-on and images from Triboars history and legends
thumb|center|1000px|The mural around the base of the stage, from the killing of three boar to the pilgrimage of rangers to Gwaerons Slumber.
It seemed just anyone could put on a show here. In a pinch, people could also find a place to sleep here, whether over night or just during a particularly dull performance.
thumb|right|250px|He shouldve used his prestidigitation for canned applause and laughter too.
In the late 1490s DR, the penniless sorcerer Simon Aumar returned to Triboar and found work as a stage magician at the Triboar playhouse, but also as a petty thief. He would cast cantrips and put on poor performances while using a mage hand spell to pickpocket members of his audience remotely. His audiences were utterly unimpressed by his prestidigitations, such as firefinger, turning only slightly blurry, and producing the smell of freshly cut grass. When his former partners-in-crime Edgin Darvis and Holga Kilgore came looking for him, Simon was surprised to see them, lost concentration, and dropped the ball of stolen valuables—loudly. With that, he magically transformed his audience into an angry mob looking for justice. When a big guy grabbed him, Simon tried to cast a shield spell but inadvertently got a reverse gravity instead, plunging them to the ceiling, where they kept pursuing until he dropped them again. The next time he tried this, Simon flew through the skylight outside the playhouse, where Holga caught him. The trio rode swiftly out of town.