Umgatliks Shrine was once a shrine, and later, a crypt, that hid the planar prison of Umgatlik, an ancient Netherese lich.
The shrine was hidden by time in the deep fissures of the Crabs Claw Coast, an area of coastal cliffs to the southwest of the city of Daggerford. As of the late 14 century DR, only one entrance was excavated in a cliffside stone wall behind a tight crevice. The only way to access the crack in stone was by descending from the clifftops, dangling on a rope.
Once archeologists squeezed past the shrine wall cracks into the structures main chamber, a large entryway propped up by columns greeted them. Walls were decorated with images and ancient writings in the Netherese language. Ancient brazers were lit, and in lieu of walls, two sides of the chamber ended in deadly chasms. Past the main chamber, a tight stone bridge stretched across the chasm towards the shrines inner sanctum.
The inner sanctum was a half-moon-shaped room filled with a sinister red glow. At the center of the room stood Umgatliks ponderous altar, covered in a thick layer of oily grime. Behind it stood two huge lit stone brazers placed on both sides of a stone throne. The altar had a message engraved in ancient Netherese language tongue "Place the scepter upon this altar
stone, Spill blood upon Umgatliks throne, Strike thrice with your hand of bone, For your soul belongs to Umgatlik alone." The short poem contained instructions on how to open the undeads planar prison.
If the described ritual was performed correctly, a harsh rumbling noise shook the crypt and a red gate formed in front of the throne, allowing Umgatlik to step through.
In the , the shrine was uncovered by Savant Gumbril, a hapless academic from the City of Splendors, Waterdeep. The man presumed that the throne belonged to a forgotten Netherese deity and hoped that the discovery would bring him acclaim. Unbeknownst to Gumbril, a cleric of Velsharoon and a follower of the undead lich named Vetrixia Nightmaiden infiltrated the Savants excavation group and sought to unleash the undead creature on Toril.
It was unknown if Vetrixia managed to achieve her goal. Some said that the portal was opened, but the lich remained trapped. Others said that the scepter from within the tomb was shattered, sealing the undead in his prison. Yet some said that the famed Hero of Daggerford stepped through the portal and slew the ancient creature.