Valkurs Berth was a cellar temple dedicated to the deity Valkur, the Captain of the Waves, located in the capital of Cormyr – Suzail.
Valkurs Berth stood on the western edge of the arch that formed the street of Tholone Lane that cut trough a city block between Neresters Run and Silverscales Street. The buildings on Tholone Lane consisted of businesses and other establishments on the ground floors and cellars, while the top floors were used as apartments. Valkurs Berth took the second cellar underneath Murrocks Fine Glass, a blackened building commonly referred to as the "Black Rock" (previously the offices of the defunct Tireless Eyes trading coster. Ildul Murrock of Murrocks Fine Glass was a Valkuryte. He did not charge the temple rent and even provided the clergy with meals. The well-hidden side-entrance led into Valkurs Berth right in the middle of the block, accessible via a  long steep ramps.
The temple was a cellar always wet from the harbor waters seeping through the walls all year round. When the water reached , it was pumped out by the temples clergy. The clerics did not mind some water on the Berths floors as it kept vermin, such as roaches and rats, at bay.
The temples main chamber had a collection of hanging wooden benches that were chained to the rooms ceiling-rafters and elevated stone walkways that radiated from the central altar to the temples god. The altar itself was a stone block carved with Valkurs holy symbols and decorated with a gilded mosaic, which, in turn, was placed atop a tall floating raft made of logs that also served as a hiding place for smuggled goods and storage for temple supplies and offerings.
The main hall had several hidden side doors that led into the temples facilities and the clergy quarters, as well as some crawl passages connected to other buildings on the block.
Apart from the standard priestly services, the temple also aided smugglers as part of the churchs dogma to aid sailors in avoiding taxes and oppression of laws. This smuggling aid was performed without asking for payments, but if offered, the Berth accepted monetary reward.
The clergy also actively waged war against slavers and pirates of the Inner Sea and sought to destroy ghost ships and other seafaring undead. The clergy also covertly worked to control shipping and goods prices by fabricating artificial shortages and other similarly chaotic schemes. Despite such clandestine goals, Valkurs Berth never tried to aid those seeking to overthrow the Crown of Cormyr or other powers in the region.
By the late 14 century DR, Valkurs Berths clergy regularly embarked on sailing journeys across the Sea of Fallen Stars as a way to venerate their deity and, as a result, exchanged staff across the coastal temples of the Captain of the Waves. At one time, Valkurs Berth in Suzail house between three to five priests. In the late 14 century DR, the temples de facto leader was the elderly cleric named Amagar Warland, who by the third year at Valkurs Berth gained reputation and renown in Suzail for defusing explosive situations among drunken sailors, offering them temporary comfort of the temple and coinlassess hired by Amagar for them, instead of alcohol. Another notable cleric at the time was Jalatharra "Storm Bird" Storn, who spent several seasons at the Berth before departing, only to eventually return to socialize with Suzails young nobles.