The Vault of Dragons was a hidden underground location in Waterdeep built long ago by dwarves. As of the late 15 century DR, the Vault could only be accessed using the Stone of Golorr, which revealed its location as well as the keys needed to enter.
The exact location of the Vault of Dragons was unknown.Per the Waterdeep Dragon Heist adventure, the Vault of Dragons has four potential canon locations. It was said perhaps to be in the Castle Ward beneath the Pink Flumph theater, in the Sea Ward under either an old tower owned by Esvele Rosznar or a windmill in which the artist Kalain lived, or in the City of the Dead below the Brandath family mausoleum.
The Vault was located underground with walls of mortared stone and doors made of solid stone slabs with stone handles and hinges. The only entrance was a  corridor ending at a massive gate of solid adamantine inscribed with Dwarvish runes that read "THE THREE KEYS. BRING THEM FORTH". This gate had no obvious handles or hinges, and opened by sliding into the wall only when three specific keys were brought near it.
Immediately inside the gates of the Vault was a tall foyer extending north with no sources of light. It featured three  columns supporting three crumbling bridges far overhead. The ground floor had with twelve iron doors embossed with images of dwarf warriors flanking the room. Of these doors, only the two in the far northeast corner of the room were real, with the other ten being immovable distractions. Behind the real doors was a chamber containing a  magical fresco of a battle between dwarves and goblins that could charm any creatures who viewed it, causing them to gaze upon it until they collapsed from exhaustion. Across from this fresco was an expertly-carved staircase leading up  to a long,  corridor known as the Hall of Moradin, from which the bridges above the foyer could be accessed via three archways along the eastern wall. This hall contained three pillars resembling upside-down warhammers, and the western wall was adorned with an aged mosaic of a dwarven blacksmith crafting dwarves out of metal and diamonds. This mosaic concealed a secret door leading to a dust-filled room containing copper urns filled with coins, gems, and other treasures.
Each of the three treacherous bridges ended in an adamantine door behind which was a small stone chamber dedicated to a different member of the Dwarven pantheon
* The northernmost of these chambers featured a  statue of Gorm Gulthyn, the armored dwarf god of vigilance sometimes called "Old Fire Eyes". At its feet was a false trapdoor, and touching it triggered a trap of fire bursting from the statues eyes.
* The southernmost chamber could only be accessed by a dwarf, and contained frescoes of dwarven smiths and an iron anvil. Upon the anvil was an inscription reading, "Let the hammer fall and the anvil ring", while hidden within the fresco was a stone hammer inscribed with "Let hearts be lifted and battles won". If the anvil was struck with the hammer, all those who heard the sound were gifted with enhanced vitality for a day.
* The middle chamber contained four suits of dwarven plate mail, an adamantine trapdoor in the center of the room, and a dwarven inscription reading, "A secret never before told will part Dumathoins lips". The trapdoor opened if a secret was spoken aloud within the room, revealing a spiral staircase that descended  into the main vault.
Despite being so far underground, the main vault was illuminated by streams of sunlight from the ceiling. Ten large alcoves were located along the outer walls and twelve ornate columns supported the  vaulted ceiling, which was decorated with carvings of dwarves being blessed by their gods.
The only entrance was sealed by the adamantine front gate, which could only be opened (from either the outside or inside) by bringing three nontraditional "keys" within  of it. The gate could only be closed by uttering a command word ("azaam").
In addition to the gate, the Vault was was magically protected to prevent any form of communication, scrying, or teleportation into it. The properties of the Stone of Golorr also contributed to the Vaults defenses, making it exceedingly difficult to not only find and access the Vault but even to remember information about it without the Stone.
Aurinax defends the Vault of Dragons.
As of the late 15 century DR, the Vault was very old and had fallen into disrepair.
During Dagult Neverembers tenure as Open Lord of Waterdeep, he embezzled half a million gold pieces from the city&mdashknown as "dragons" within Waterdeep&mdashand concealed the sum within the main vault of the Vault of Dragons. He then recruited the gold dragon Aurinax to protect the Vault, who agreed to allow only Neverember or his agents near the treasure in exchanged for the dragonstaff of Ahghairon. Aurinax adopted the guise of an old dwarf named Barok Clanghammer, and began his vigil within the Vault. To further protect his treasure, Neverember hired a wizard to erase the memories of the Vaults location and means of access from both his own mind and the minds of his subordinates, and caused this information to become trapped within the Stone of Golorr. Neveremver then concealed the Stone in the Palace of Waterdeep and caused the wizard to disappear.
When Neverember was ousted from his position as Open Lord circa , he was cutoff from the Stone of Golorr&mdashwhich came into the possession of Xanathar&mdashand thus became unable to access his ill-gotten gold. However, by this time the public had come to learn about his embezzled money, and a hunt had begun to find his wealth involving everyone from individuals treasure hunters&mdashsuch as the thief Braya&mdashto major factions including the Lords Alliance, the Harpers, Force Grey, the Emerald Enclave, and the Order of the Gauntlet, but most notably the Zhentarim, the Xanathars Thieves Guild, the Cassalanter family, and Bregan Daerthe.
The Vault had been long abandoned by the time that Dagult Neverember made use of it in the 15 century DR. By 1492 DR, in addition to Aurinax, the Vault was the home of a single black pudding that laired in the Hall of Moradin.