The Waterclock Guilds Crypts, also known as the Clockwork Tomb, the Clockmakers Catacombs, or the Waterclock Crypts, was a mausoleum built by the Waterclock Guild of Neverwinter. It was located within the citys Neverdeath Graveyard.
The interior of the mausoleum (note the clock face on the floor).
The mausoleum itself was located within the Craftsmans Rest section of Neverdeath,
The floor of the central room of the mausoleum was a massive clock. Only by correctly calibrating the clock to five lesser clocks located in adjoining rooms could one access the depths of the crypts.
In addition to its traps, the mausoleums door was heavily reinforced and sealed with complex lock that made it extraordinarily difficult to access the crypts directly. Opening the door required that a series of mechanical seals be unlocked around Craftsmans Rest near the Crypts, as well as a metaphysical seal&mdashknown as the "Shadow Lock"&mdashlocated in the graveyard of Evernight.
Access to the final chambers within the crypts catacombs was warded and required answering a riddle known as the "Question of Time" before one could enter.
The Crypts were commissioned by Lucan Greenharrow, a co-founder of the Waterclock Guild, at some point before the 14 century DR, as he wanted a place to conduct his magical research in secret. The catacombs were built using the guilds most advanced techniques.
One of the high ranking Guild members, Romani Monini, was also a member of the Cult of the Dragon, and stored artifacts relevant to the Rite of the Dracolich within the crypts. In addition, when he was buried, he ordered that the young blue dragon Azharzel be sealed in the crypt alongside him.
At some point after the Spellplague, the Waterclock Guild abandoned the crypts, leaving almost all of the previously bound elementals to their own devices. However, when members of the Waterclock Guild began returning to Neverwinter in the late 15 century DR, some sought to reclaim the crypts, either to recover lost examples of the Guilds water clocks or to inter their guildmates who had died since the fall of the Guild. 
In the , a thieves guild led by Palas broke into the crypts and stole a valuable water clock. They subsequently made plans to return and plunder the crypts further. 
Following the Siege of Neverwinter, Valindra Shadowmantles Thayan forces broke into the Waterclock Guild Crypts in a race against the Cult of the Dragon, and obtained both Azharzel and the artifacts that would allow her to transform him into a dracolich.
By the late 15 century DR, a section of the crypts became separated from the rest of the complex when a passage collapsed. who evidently gained access via the catacombs of the neighboring Hallix Mausoleum.
In addition to binding water elementals and water weirds within the crypts, the Waterclock Guild bound a marid named Shanzezim, preventing him from leaving. Long after the fall of the Guild, he occupied himself by assembling clocks in a makeshift workshop in the catacombs.
After the Guild abandoned the crypts in the 15 century DR, they came to be occupied by undead as well as a massive giant spider known as Shoth the Tomb Queen.