The Wings of the Queen Reborn was a cathedral dedicated to the dragon goddess Tiamat. It was the center of operations for the Church of Tiamat within the Cold Lands during the latter half of the 14 century DR.
The temple was located in a cavern within the dungeon complex beneath the ruined Castle Perilous in Vaasa.
The main focus of the temples operations was to take revenge on the lands of Damara and the faithful of Bahamut after King Gareth Dragonsbane and his companions slew an aspect of Tiamat in her own lair at Bahamuts direction during the . This goal was of such great personal importance to Tiamat that she would frequently send an avatar to oversee the temples activities.
From the Wings of the Queen Reborn, the Church of Tiamat launched operations throughout the Cold Lands to undermine Damara both directly, by bringing chromatic dragons together on their doorstep, By the 1370s DR, the temple complex had become the site of an ambitious and profane crossbreeding project to create dragonspawn, monstrosities not seen since the Dragonfall War. These creatures were then sent far and wide to do Tiamats bidding.
Aside from the faithful of Tiamat, the temple was protected by dragons and dragonspawn,
In the , shortly after Gareth Dragonsbanes victory over Zhengyi and Orcus and his planting of the Tree-Gem of Bloodstone, Tiamat took notice of the Tree-Gem and sent her avatar to Castle Perilous and summoned flights of chromatic dragons of all colors from across the Cold Lands to prepare to help her take revenge on the hero and his realm. The temple was created soon after, overseen by a cult known as the Handmaidens of the Undying Queen. Among other things, this cult sought out the eggs and remains of metallic dragons to feed to their goddess.
Within a decade, the various chambers beneath Castle Perilous had been cleared sufficiently to begin housing a growing force of cultists,
During the , a plot set in motion by Tiamat came to fruition when Sammaster of the Cult of the Dragon triggered the Dracorage mythal, causing widespread destruction of and by dragons across Faerûn, and also declared himself the new Witch-King, leading to an invasion of Damara. Throughout this all, the temple beneath Castle Perilous endured and continued its work even after Sammaster was killed and Damara and Vaasa were reclaimed by Gareth Dragonsbane.
Around the , the Cult of the Dragon heard rumors that the temple was home to a multi-headed dracolich. The Cult suspected that this was a trap by the Church of Tiamat meant to trick or control them, and so rather than send their own agents to parlay with this rumored dracolich, they began circulating the rumors further in hopes that adventurers would find the truth for them.
The temple was maintained by the Handmaidens of the Undying Queen, led by Hesthera Draketalons. and cultists.
The most notable inhabitant, however, was the avatar of Tiamat herself which frequented the temple.