The Winged Wyvern Bridge was one of the three symbolic bridges of Neverwinter.
The bridge was carved in the likeness of a wyvern. It was differentiated from the Sleeping Dragon Bridge by its extended wings.
The Winged Wyvern Bridge, alongside the other two bridges, radiated out of Castle Never, connecting it with the rest of the city. 
In the , the Netherese warlord Herzgo Alegni used his slave, Barrabus the Gray, to coerce the then lord of Neverwinter, Hugo Babris, to officially rename the bridge the "Herzgo Alegni Bridge". The bridge maintained its name only for a few days, however, before the eruption of Mount Hotenow destroyed most of the city, killing most of the citizens. It was said that Barrabus hid beneath the Winged Wyvern Bridge to escape the heat and ash until he discovered an escape route through the sewers. After the cataclysm, no survivor remembered the bridge had been ever renamed, and the Neverwintans just called the bridge the name they were used to, the Winged Wyvern. The Winged Wyvern was the only one of the three bridges that withstood the cataclysm almost unscathed.
In the , Alegni sent Barrabus to aid the new citizens of Neverwinter against Sylora Salm, who sought to kill the citizens to feed the power of her Dread Ring in service to Szass Tam. In honor of his service, Barrabus persuaded the citizens to rename the bridge the "Walk of Barrabus", in his honor, as an intentional insult to his hated master.
Upon discovering this, Alegni demanded that the citizens of Neverwinter rename the bridge the "Herzgo Alegni Bridge" again, when he conquered the city. This renaming was also short-lived, for soon after Drizzt DoUrden, Dahlia Sinfelle, and Barrabus, now calling himself Artemis Entreri, defeated Alegni, freeing Neverwinter from the Netherese. Entreri later demanded that the bridge never again be called the "Walk of Barrabus", when Neverwinter offered to return the name to honor him. The demand was tempered with the very real threat of death.
By 1479 DR, the Winged Wyvern Bridge was the only land route that connected the Protectors Enclave with the northern districts of the city.