The Zhentarim hideout was underground cave system used by the Zhentarim to conduct their smuggling business and other illicit deals along a stretch of the Risen Road on the Sword Coast during the late 15 century DR.
The hideout was set in the caverns beneath the Waukeens Rest inn on the Risen Road, approximately equidistant between the cities of Baldurs Gate and Elturel.
The caverns were accessible from one of the "barns" behind the inn. This structure was actually a specially-designed warehouse in which a guard would view any incomers and demand a set password before allowing entry to the hideout beneath them.
A wooden ladder led down beneath the warehouse to a hidden storeroom, that at first glace, appeared entirely self-contained. A secret false-door in the back of a wardrobe could be opened up, granting access to a winding dirt tunnel and the smugglers caves the Zhentarim called home.
The naturally-formed caverns used by the Zhentarim were quite spacious, if a bit precarious to traverse. Narrow ledged, rocky outcroppings, and dirt-covered bridges crisscrossed over tunnels and passageways, forming a labyrinthine network that was tricky to navigate. Wooden platforms and scaffolding were built to allow for better access to the terrain, accessible by ladders or climbing atop wooden crates.
At the rear of the hideout was an illusory wall that obscured an entrance into the Underdark.
300px|A personal study and office within the hideout.
The caves received a few columns of natural light from the sky above but was mostly illuminated by torches and lanterns.
The hideout gave off an underlying sense of dread to newcomers as it housed a great many explosives that could be detonated at any moment.
Most space in the caves were used as storage for the great amount of goods the Zhentarim held, including food, spirits, weapons, poisons, valuable gems and jewelry, explosives, and even some fine art. The most valuable and rarest of the Zhent-held goods were kept in two locked chambers in the rear of the hideout, one of which doubled as a personal study.
250px|Looking out from the entrance of the hideout, viewing the deployed explosive proximity mines.
Traveling down the dirt tunnel from the false barn behind the inn, visitors arrived at the only entrance in or out of the hideout. This narrow passageway was barred behind  wrought-iron gate that could only be opened with one of a pair of keys.
A mechanical device situated above the dirt tunnel held about a dozen large proximity mines, all of which could be dropped with the pull of a level. Once deployed, the mines sat in the dirt, emitting a bright yellow light until some unfortunate soul stepped too close. At that point, the light would turn red and the mine would detonate – likely setting off a chain reaction with the adjacent explosives.
The hideout was still operational as of the . As of that time, local Zhentarim operations were led by the ambitious and ruthless leader named Zarys.
When Grand Duke Ulder Ravengard was abducted from Waukeens Rest that year, Zarys knew that Baldurian authorities would eventually come knocking on their operation. Refusing to allow the greater Zhentarim organization to be compromised, she ordered her men to set up demolitions and cave-in their hideout from within.
* Brem, an unscrupulous Zhentarim merchant.
* Indra, Isbeth, and Istor, three massive wolves kept as guard hounds.