Zorbas Fish Market was an indoor market owned by the former fisherman Zorba in the Harbor District of the city of Ravens Bluff in the 14 century DR.
The building that housed the Fish Market was a repurposed warehouse with skylights.
The interior of the warehouse was largely taken up by thirty-nine stalls, all measuring  on each side. Zorba ensured that the space was kept as clean as possible within the warehouse and had straw scattered around the floor to absorb liquids. This straw was swapped out for new straw once every week. The skylights of the building were usually kept open so as to allow for air circulation and minimize odors given off by the goods sold at the market.
Thirty eight of the stalls that made up the Fish Market were rented out on a daily basis at a rate of 7 silver pieces, with the thirty ninth reserved by Zorba himself for use as an office, though he sometimes was willing to rent it out in return for a gold piece if a merchant was ever desperate for a place to sell their wares. A select few sellers were allowed to reserve stalls in advance for months at a time.
There were only five rules that stall operators had to follow, with rules one and five both being to simply "pay in advance". Anyone caught breaking these terms would be banned from doing business in the market. And there were no guards employed by the warehouses owner to oversee everything, leaving stall operators to police their own areas.
The Fish Market opened each day at noon and closed at sundown. Although the majority of wares sold there were the fresh catch of fishermen, the market was also host to a variety of merchants dealing in non-fish goods, making for a varied range of things to buy each day. These included bakers selling bread, farmers selling milk and eggs or whole grains, and small local businesses selling their excess wares.
On a typical day the stalls of the Fish Market were host to nineteen fishermen selling their catch, one retired fisherman selling fish hooks, one dockhand offering net repairs, one craftsman offering sea shells and other adornments, two bakers selling bread, two farmers, two cooks selling baked and salted fish, two merchants selling fishing supplies, one merchant selling pickled sea products, one merchant selling fish and chips, one leatherworker selling gloves and boots, two women selling working clothes and scarves, and one woman that sold various snacks and refreshments.
Sometime in the , an unknown party started dumping trash right outside of the Fish Market, causing its owner to get in trouble with the citys Regent of the Harbor, Lord Calvin Longbottle. In light of this, Zorba would hire a group of adventurers to find out who was responsible for the littering.Port of Ravens Bluff (pp. 42, 45) states that Charles OKane became Mayor 20 years ago, which would set it in 1361 DR.
* Coelbait Grimhard, Captain of the Fair Weather, a fishing and smuggling ship that sometimes brought smuggled goods to the Fish Market hidden inside fish or within cartloads of fish. This tactic proved to be rather efficient, as the sheer volume of goods sold at the Fish Market made it easy to smuggle small merchandise past the Ravenian authorities.
* Gramps, an elderly fisherman and operator of the Skippy.
* Zorba, the owner of the Fish Market. He could often be found wandering throughout the warehouse, visiting customers and checking up on clients.
The Fish Market was rumored to be a front for a thieves guild.