Alphar, also known as Alphar Port, was the largest settlement on Alphar Isle in the Pirate Isles on the Sea of Fallen Stars
Alphar was located on the western coast near the middle of the island.
It had the largest harbor on Alphar Isle, being able to hold 30 ships, and was a flourishing town almost 5,000 people circa 1359 DR.
Unlike the other settlements scattered though the Pirate Isles, Alphar had its own government separate from the influence of any pirate captains. This government was headed by Selshin Toshant in the 1350s DR. Although a retired pirate himself, he worked to "clean up" the harbor, tried to ban wanted pirates, and attempted to initiate legal trade with the northern nations of Sembia, Procampur, and Impiltur. However, they were not enamored of establishing such bonds with a port that had close ties to pirates and, at home, the folk of Alphar held tight to their pirate traditions and opposed Selshins efforts. There was a risk that if he pushed too far, he would be removed from power before long.
Though it was frequented by pirates, Only privateers were barred.
Alphar maintained a standing militia to defend the town. Its harbor had several breakrocks and a harbor chain was deployed during years past, but the chain had fallen into a state of disrepair and was lost as of 1359 DR. Otherwise, it did not have much in the way of defenses, leaving it vulnerable to direct attack.
The residents of Alphar took a strong stand against minor incursions such as raids, with the raiders ships wrecked on the breakrocks, but outright attacks from sovereign nations were not met head on. Instead, the residents typically abandoned the town to its fate and disappeared into the wilderness in order to return and rebuild later.
Local pirate tales told that Captain Immurk the Invincible established his first pirate hold on Alphar Isle, some time in the late 12 century DR. However, if true, he likely soon realized its disadvantages and moved on to the Dragonisle. As it proved more useful to pirates and settlement on that island grew, Alphar became less important.
According to legend, in the , King Verovan Lorndessar challenged a Red Wizard of Thay to a race from Alphar harbor, down the Windrace, around Mirg Isle, and back. He was going quite well until he used his whip on his oarsmen, found the deceitful Thayvian had secretly swapped it for one made of cockatrice feathers, and that he had turned all his oarsmen to stone. His ship was wrecked on the rocks of the Neck and he himself was petrified.
* Jezgar Skentzin, a lycanthropic seawolf pirate he and his crew sometimes visited during the day, but left before nightfall.