Alpuk, also called the Central Basin, was the largest of the three regions of the Great Glacier and the home of the Iulutiun people.
The Great Glacier was naturally divided into three regions. The largest region was Alpuk, located in the southwest and bordered by the Uppuk River in the north, the Tuutsaas Chain in the west, the Lugsaas Chain in the south, and the Keryjek Ridge in the east. The region of Angalpuk was to the east, and Nakvaligach to the north.
Alpuk encompassed the two largest seas in the Great Glacier, the Nakalpgotak and the Lugalpgotak. The mysterious mountainous region known as Novularond, home of frost giants and arctic dwarves, was also within its borders.
Most of the land was at a low elevation, but the ground was rough and occasionally contained rolling hills.
Average temperatures in Alpuk ranged from .
Only  of precipitation fell on Alpuk per year on average.
The ice depth over much of Alpuk was between , though it thinned to as little as  in some areas.
Wild caribou herds lived in the hills and mountains of Alpuk, though not nearly in the large numbers seen east in Angalpuk. The strange creatures known as "walrus dogs", or kupuk, lived wild in Alpuk and were often tamed by the Ulutiuns.
Two monsters lived in Alpuk that caused fear among its people&mdashwhite dragons and the bizarre centipede-like tirichik.
Very little vegetation grew in Alpuk. A few exceptions were mikka, a mint-flavored, black lichen growing near streams, and seal berries, found on the shore of the Lugalpgotak Sea.
Alpuk was first settled by humans in  by hunters and explorers from Sossal, who were ambushed by a tirichik and then lost. They eventually found their way to the Lugalpgotak Sea and settled around its shores.
 Ahtitlak  This small village had a strange bond with remorhaz, having learned even how to ride them.
 Imajuvisik  A small village of skilled hunters.
 Jukum  The second-largest settlement in Alpuk.
 Keryjek Ridge  The eastern border of Alpuk.
 Lilinuk  The largest settlement on the Great Glacier.
 Lugalpgotak Sea  The largest body of water on the Great Glacier.
 Uppuk River  The largest river of the Great Glacier and the northern border of Alpuk.
The primary inhabitants of Alpuk were the Iulutiun tribes, descendents of the first settlers from Sossal.
Arctic dwarves, known as Innugaakalikurit, and frost giants also lived in Alpuk.
CategoryRegions
CategoryLocations on the Great Glacier
CategoryLocations in Northeast Faerûn
CategoryLocations in Faerûn
CategoryLocations on Toril
bn1ja3khaxuyrr5oyf119prssm8607x