Altumbel was a secluded nation of fishermen and merchant-pirates located on the peninsula that extended into the Sea of Fallen Stars. By choice, its people became isolationists and had little relations with nearby Aglarond or other neighboring countries.
The county neighbored Aglarond to the east and included the Thousand Swords among its territory.
Altumbels harsh landscape was dotted with temperate, wind-swept valleys that were not suitable for farming. There were no forests in the region. 
The coastline was shrouded in fog, obscuring a rocky descent into the sea. The cold waters were rich with sea life.
Off the coast, the rocky archipelago comprised similarly barren isles that were little more than floating rocks.
Altumbel was governed by a Ruling Council that met in the capital city of Spandeliyon. Each of the nations settlements each sent one representative to attend council meetings.
While many outsiders failed to make the distinction,
Throughout their history  the people of Altumbel were fishermen through and through. 
The names of their seafaring vessels were based on the goods they carried, like Spicesail or Timberhold.
The Smokeflower House trading house originated in Altumbel. They moved goods to and from the cities of Ravens Bluff, Tsurlagol, and Procampur.
When Jhaamdath was destroyed in the , some of its peoples migrated to the region that would later be known as Altumbel. By the , they had settled many of the islands that composed the Thousand Swords archipelago.
In the , the region of Altumbel was "officialy established" as part of the Untherite Empire. The settlers were only some meager pirates and those who sought to live far removed from others. Some people from the nation of Impiltur also emigrated to Altumbel around this time.
The country of Aglarond arose when the war between the local humans and the half-elves of the Yuirwood finally ended in the . Those disgruntled humans who refused to live peacefully with the elves traveled west to the end of the peninsula, and founded the independent nation of Altumbel.
Around the , the Sons of Hoar began to garner a significant following in Altumbel.
In the days immediately prior to the Spellplague, the Simbuls harsh punishment of pirates had put lie to the nickname of the City of Pirates.
* Spandeliyon, the capital of the region, was once known as the City of Pirates.
* Urbryur, a gnomish village whose main export was chalk
The Altumbellan people were highly suspicious of outsiders. Approximately one third of their numbers lived scattered among the Thousand Swords.