Awajiga was a community of weavers and one of the many isolated villages of the Fochu Peninsula in Wa.
The people of Awajiga were suspicious of strangers and not at all welcoming. It had a population of about 350 individuals after .
At that time, the leader of Awajiga was constructing a canal from the Nanaichi River to the south, hoping to improve the settlements capacity to grow crops and improve the financial health of its citizens.
Most of the structures within the village were simple peasant shacks known as minka, built from wood with latticed walls and straw-thatched roofs. Apart from these poor residences were small barns, warehouses, and shops.
Awajiga was located on the west coast of the Fochu Peninsula of Tsukishima, north of Fochu, off a spur trail from the Hisano Road.
Villages in Wa were run by an administrator known as a shoya, typically a minor samurai, and Awajiga was no different in this respect. The shoya could call upon a local militia if needed. The shoya of Awajiga after Wa Year 1770 (1352 DR) was Nasu Anteki, an enterprising businessman who always wore a bright red kimono.
Like the other tiny settlements of the region, Awajiga had little contact with the other villages, much less with the rest of Kara-Tur or regions beyond. The people were weavers, but there is no evidence that they actively traded their goods with other settlements.
The cost to spend the night in one of the small minkas was 3 fen. The village did not produce anything more expensive than 4 yuan to sell.
About 35 citizens of Awajiga served in its militia. These persons were only armed with simple clubs or spears.
Unlike the other settlements in the region, the people of Awajiga were not particularly religious.
Sometime after Wa Year 1770 (1352 DR), deposed coiled dragon Za-Jikku began murdering citizens of the many villages of the Fochu Peninsula, transforming them into magical butterflies, the breath of which would create yun chi, the vapor of death, which he would use to live forever.
During the same time period, the village ran into problems with the Order of the Snake,