Ayakar, nicknamed the Carnelian Star Among Opals, was coastal trading town in Turmish that was famous for its widely-popular bazaar. It received ships from far and wide across the diverse nation.
The town seemed precariously built as its famous bazaar jutted of the edge of a cliff face, but was in fact quite structurally sound. It comprised nine large domed structures built over spacious and beauteous atriums. The residential area of town was situated inland from the coast line.
The scent of seawater permeated the air around Ayakar all year round, and a thing layer of salt.
The Ayakaran people primarily venerated the goddess Selûne, as she held influence over the tides. They tended to speak in rather long prose, preferring poetic language and quirky idioms.
Many locals carried on their person, long ornamental blades.
A favored meal often given as a gesture of welcome was a loaf of sourdough bread served with a small bowl of salt, for which the town was famous.
The town was situated in northern Turmish on a cliff overlooking the Sea of Fallen Stars.
Ayakars bazaar attracted shoppers from far and wide. Within its nine domes were several public services buildings, along with numerous businesses, including its renowned bakery, a bustling tea house, an anglers shop for all types of fishers, a sailmakers establishment, the spice market, and a shop that specialized in travelers gear.
The town housed several fermentation vats, which collected naturally-formed yeast from the sea, to be used in producing famous Ayakaran sourdough bread.
Fishing was also a robust industry in Ayakar, as the nearby bay was teeming way many unique species of fish. 
In addition to its notable businesses and trading space, Ayakar housed a public meeting space, a hospital run by clerics of Selûne, and public bathing houses.
* Khynree, the local wizard that was well-acquainted with the underwater storm giant fortress of Maelstrom.
* Mezhar, a djinn that took the appearance of a Turmisian man and worked as an agent for the Deryan family of Alaghôn.
* Thessalia, the half-sea elf that championed for Turmish against the forces of Thay.