The Bazaar was the permanent market of Menzoberranzan located in the district of Duthcloim (also known as Manyfolk).
The Bazaar of Menzoberranzan attracted merchants and buyers from across the multiverse. Most races were welcome (with the exception of beholders, neogi and githyanki), and as long as the peace was kept and proper respect was shown to matron mothers, someone (or something) could buy whatever they might have desired here (including cadavers). Many surface-dwelling merchants and trade goods passed through or remained in Menzoberranzan. All people of Menzoberranzan shopped at the Bazaar, even some matron mothers.
In the Bazaar were cobblers, riding lizards, duergar, kuo-toa, and ogre mages. Slaves included orcs, gnolls, bugbears, goblins, and kobolds. There was also at least one barber stall, a game tent, and a portrait painter. One could obtain surgery or send messages to the surface from the Bazaar. 
The Bazaar smelled of surface produce, mulled wine, leather, frying oil, rothe dung, and blood.
No permanent structures were allowed within the accepted limits of the Bazaar by order of the council. Places of business were to move at least every 66 days, so as to prevent monopolies on space and promote browsing, often making finding a particular stall very difficult.
Prices were always fluctuating due to supply and demand.
During the great spell battle between Gromph Baenre and the Lichdrow Dyrr in 1373 DR, a great part of the Bazaar was destroyed. A number of merchants, returning to check the security of the goods, were killed and some were petrified. However, a short time later, the Bazaar was once again thriving.
 Blundyths wizard supply shop 
Located in a stall made of fungus, the proprieter, Blundyth, had an arbalest and a toad familiar. He was killed in 1372 DR by Pharaun Mizzrym, who also set fire to and ransacked his shop.
 Daelein Shimmerdarks Decanters 
A shop in the Bazaar selling wine, liquor, potions, and poisons.
 Dhodes Fine Piwafwis
The business of Dhode Luorz, a tailor making piwafwis.
 The Jewel Box 
Technically located just outside the borders of the Bazaar, this tavern epitomized the character of the area. It had no sign customers had to knock on the door and be observed through a peephole. (Pharaun Mizzrym believed this added to its appeal.) Inside the main room played male drow musicians. The Jewel Box employed goblin slaves and held female prisoners in the brothel in the cellar. The bartender of the Jewel Box in 1372 DR was Nym, an old battle mage with only one leg.
 Quilds Mobile Parlor 
Quild sold miscellaneous trinkets on a bench in a cart, but his most valuable resource was his knowledge of the city and rumors of its plots.
 Sense of Sensuous Scents 
Run by Rauva Zoldyth, this shop sold incense, oils, and candles for rituals and other purposes.
 Vhurn Bhaelyndryns Bestiary 
Provider of pack lizards and riding lizards, as well as their tack. It was heavily guarded by drow and gnolls. The proprietor, Vhurn, sold riding lizards harnessed and ready to go, as well as assistance in evading pursuit, for an astronomical fee. He also sold prepared "Underdark packs" and was knowledgeable of where to obtain other supplies.
 Whispers in the Dark 
Set up in the Spellplague era by the human wizard Fethlorn Kelapanch, this shop featured drow commoner orphans who were paid to run messages around the city. Fethlorn also had spells at his disposal to contact nearly anyone in the World Above.