| usethe        = yes
| useon         = 
| inhabitants   = yes
| locations     = yes
| organizations = yes
| settlements   = yes
| source        = FRCG
| page          = 96-7
The Beastlands were a region of plains at the eastern end of the Shaar. It was home to various non-human monstrous tribes who were allied in a loose confederation for self-defense. The eastern edge of this region was formed by the Giants Belt Mountains, a range which separated the plains from the desert to the east.
300px|thumb|left
Aerilpar Forest
Aerilpar Forest was also known as the Wood of Dark Trees, both for its animated jungle and the dangerous beasts that prowl it. Among its more notable features was the Mound of the Sleepless.
Sharawood
Located along the coast of the Gulf of Luiren, Sharawood was a haunted forest overrun with monsters and undead. Watching over the forest jealously was the Everlasting Wyrm, a powerful dracolich.
Curna Mountains
This short mountain range lay to the south of the Beastlands. Located within their foothills was the powerful city of Tirumala.
Giants Belt Mountains
Marking the northeastern border of the Beastlands, the Giants Belt Mountains were from whence the giants who destroyed Veldorn came, making them the origin point of the Beastlands themselves.
Toadsquat Mountains
Slumped alongside the Beastlands southern shore, the Toadsquat Mountains held, among their secrets, the fortress of Castle Alhanar.
Tirumala
A "holy city" located among seven hills, Tirumala was a rich city-state ruled over by a rakshasa. Tirumala was primarily populated by rakshasa nobility and slaves of varying racial origins.
Blackfeather Barrens
A kenku-dominated wasteland known for its hostility towards outsiders, Blackfeather Barrens was feared even among the other inhabitants of the Beastlands.
Castle Alhanar
Located in the Toadsquat Mountains, this ancient fortress was once the base of the Knights of the Eternal Dragon, who swore themselves to the destruction of the Everlasting Wyrm.
The Purple Spire
An ancient and battered tower that stood over the ancient ruins of Imaskari complex.
Thruldar
Once an outpost of Estagund, Thruldar fell into ruin following its destruction by a mad druid named Voolad. Although Voolad was long dead his spirit remained trapped in the village and was released during the Spellplague.