The Bifrost, also known as the Rainbow Bridge or the Trembling Road, was a mystical bridge created by the gods of the Norse pantheon that acted as a planar pathway between their divine realm of Asgard and the whole of the Prime Material plane or "Midgard".
In the Great Wheel cosmology, the Bifrost was located in Ysgard, the layer of the Outer Plane of the same name. In some Norse variations of the World Tree cosmology, which lacked the plane of Ysgard, the Bifrost was considered to be a unique transitive plane, connecting only Asgard and Midgard.
As its alternate named suggested, the Rainbow Bridge resembled a rainbow. It was kept well hidden from mortals on Midgard, generally only being visible during the day. When manifesting on the Prime Material, the bridge looked to be a particularly vivid rainbow, with prominent colors of cyan, magenta, and yellow. Its base measured  across, though could be commanded by Heimdall to widen if necessary, and its other end terminated at a misty cloud high above the sky.
To those standing on it, the Bifrost looked to be a cloud of pure dazzling light, as if one was surrounded by thousands of prisms. It often looked as though it was trembling and shuddering in the wind, earning it the moniker of "Trembling Road", yet footing on it was always quite solid.
A map depicting the side of the Bifrost that was anchored outside the gates of Asgard.
One end of the Bifrost was permanently anchored outside of Himinborg,With but one exception, all sources agree that Himinborg is located next to one of the two entryways of the Bifrost, though sources are in disagreement over which side it was. Dragon #90s article Plane facts on Gladsheim (1984) states that Himinborg is on the side of the Bifrost that enters into Gladsheim (Ysgard), thus situating it on the Plain of Ida. In the Manual of the Planes (1987) for 1 edition, Himinbjorg is confusingly stated to be located "where that bridge ends upon the plains of lda and Vigrid." Legends & Lore (1990) contradicts all sources, placing Himinbjorg "atop the bridge" itself. In the Planes of Chaos boxed sets Book of Chaos (1994), it is stated that Himinborg stood at the center of the Plain of Ida (p.112), but also that it was "just outside Asgards walls" (p.115). On Hallowed Ground (1996) defers to the latter, stating it was "outside the wall of Asgard" (p.146) and depicting it as being on the Plain of Vigrid in the books map of Asgard (p.144). This great hall was the hub of Asgards trade and travel, as anyone that wanted to travel across the Bifrost to either enter the realm of Asgard, leave from Asgard to the wider layer of Ysgard, or use it to enter the Prime had to pass through Himinborg. Consequently, visitors to Ysgard from the Prime were most commonly found near the Bifrost and Himinborg, and their naivete often attracted the attention of bandits.
The other end of the Rainbow Bridge, when not being used a nexus to the Prime Material, was anchored outside a green field known as the Plain of Ida.
A representation of Ysgards structure and the Bifrosts connection to the Prime Material.
As a conduit of the Norse pantheons combined divine power, to and from their worshipers across the Prime Material, For nonbelievers the bridge would be untraversable, constantly moving away from them.
The Bifrost was impervious to both magical and physical harm. Finally, if any undead or other normally harmed by sunlight were to walk across the Bifrost, they would be slain in the process.
The most notable among the Bifrosts functions was its ability to directly connect to any location across the worlds of the Prime Material Plane. It could connect to whichever world the gods desired, though could only do so with one world at a time and typically only during the day. This function of the Bifrost was controlled by Heimdall, who commanded where it sat down. And some of the sagas of the Norse worshipers claimed that, in times of dire need, he was capable of manifesting it even in the dead of the night.
Heimdall is ready to throw down in defense of the Bifrost.
The Norse god Heimdall was the guardian of the Bifrost. It was his primary duty in life,
Besides Heimdall, the militia of Himinborg acted as the advanced forces of Asgard and the Bifrost, defending against giants and other creatures that occasionally attempted to charge across the bridge. The militias troops consisted of einheriar, planar warriors, petitioners, and criminals who had chosen to volunteer their services for a specified time in return for their crimes being forgiven.
Some rumors claimed that the red stripe of the Rainbow Bridge would set fire to any frost giant that set foot on it and that the magenta stripe would freeze any fire giant. Another rumor claimed that Bjorn Hammarskold, a human and member of the Fated that ran Himinborg in the absentee lord Heimdalls stead, was the one who truly commanded the Bifrost.
According to the prophetical legends of the Norse, the patron god of the fire giants Surtur would one day storm across the Bifrost with his subjects and it would be destroyed under their weight.