century DR.
Bistals Bottom, or simply the Bottom, was a small village in Turmish, Vilhon Reach.
Bistals Bottom was a collection of humble scattered buildings. The visitors of the hamlet were greeted by the villages name painted on a side of a mill. The settlement was lush with trees and gardens, perched on the side of a hollow turned a millpond.
Notably, the village was under protection of Oghma the Father of All Knowledge, a deity who served under Mystra. The god of knowledge kept the village safe because of the Cave of Memories, hidden underneath.
Bistals Bottom was located in the heart of Turmish, to the southeast from the town of Peldrathans Pool and connected to it via a trail. Other neighboring cities included Zustild, far to the south, Moonhunt Down, to the north-east, and Nonthal to the east.
Bistals Bottom was named after the person who owned a hollow around which the town grew. With time, the hollow was turned into the villages millpond.
Over the years, many adventuring bands, wizards, priests, and mercenaries tried to claim an ordinary-looking rocky hill in the village. Every single one of the would-be conquers found themselves aimlessly wandering the outskirts of Bistals Bottom, affected by feeblemind magic. Since the villages founding, many children were lost after wandering too close to the strange hill and into the cavern at its summit. The defensive magics of the Cave of Memories sent these unwitting children to an unknown destinations far across the land never to be seen again. Because of these disappearances, locals believed the hill to be haunted.
* Despite Bistals Bottoms size, the town held a shrine to Tyr.
* Perhaps the most notable thing about the sleepy little village was The Cave of Memories that laid beneath a rocky hilltop in Bistals Bottom.
Most folk of the Bottom were simple famers that raised animals, and hunters. Several competent rangers could be found within the village, as well as a family of halflings who ran the Bottoms mill.
Shaeril, the priestess of Oghma who kept a watchful eye on the Cave of Memories. It was believed she was empowered by her god to stand against group of strong fighters and even archmages. She eagerly talked about the vision granted to the caves visitors who managed to find their way back to Bistals Bottom after being magically spirited away.