The Blade Kingdoms was the collective name given to a group of six relatively small city-states nestled between Chondath and Chessenta in the region of the Akanal that contained mountain valleys of Akanapeaks and shores of the Akanamere.
The Blade Kingdoms included six city-states Lotoli, Lomatra, Kirenzia, Sumbria, located on the fertile shores of Akanamere, Zutria, that laid on the shores and in the Hills of Apion, and, lastly, Colletro, in the Akanapeaks rich Valley of Umbricci.
All cities of the Blade Kingdoms were surrounded by smaller quaint rustic villages, vineyards, and olive tree groves. The city walls were erected on top of Chessentan ruins that predated the Blade Kingdoms by a dozen centuries. The military engineers from the young cities repaired ancient aqueducts, carrying waters across lush valleys and decaying villas that were left from the previous occupants of the land. Many of the valleys of the Blade Kingdoms, including the Valley of Umbricci, were littered with ancient strange cogs and shattered statues. Many of these remnants of old Chondath were left in peace by the superstitious folk of the Blade Kingdoms.
The cities of the Blade Kingdoms in relation to the cities of 340x340px
The Blade Kingdoms were resettled circa 1017 DR by the grand mercenary companies from the Vilhon Reach. The sellswords turned their backs on their honor-less Chondathian masters and their bloody trying wars. The numerous mercenary troopers with their families, traveling hospitals, mobile sanctuaries, and courts, slowly traveled the continent until they reached the unclaimed lands on the north-western shores of the Akanamere. The Vilhonese claimed the yellow rolling hills and valleys of scattered ruins.
The engineers and scientists that came with the mercenary settlers spent several years preparing ancient aqueducts, soldiers cleared the broken harbor mouths and repaired the roads and mountain passes. With more time, tent cities became high-walled cities. Each mercenary company claimed a piece of land, each becoming a city-state. Mercenary captains wed their followers, captured enemies, and courtesans, making the first generations of the noble families of the Blade Kingdoms.
The Blade Kingdoms flourished for the two centuries that followed. The military tradition of mercenary leadership became married to democratic governing. Mercenary councils evolved into senates of nobility.
In the summer of 1217 DR, a "white war" was playing out between armies of Colletro and neighboring Sumbria. The contest took place in the greenery of the Valley of Umbricci. The two city-states were old adversaries, and the battle was to settle the ownership of the Valley, its salt mines, olive presses, and rich cattle farms. The conflict between the Prince of Sumbria - Cappa Mannicci da Sumbria, and the ruler of Colletro - Prince-elect Ricardo, was resolved with the triumph of Sumbria. The winner received the ownership of the Valley of Umbricci - three villages, mines, and the Sun Gem a huge diamond that symbolized the heart and the spirit of the Blade Kingdoms.
Following the embarrassing loss of the "white war", Ugo Svarézi, the Blade Captain of Colletro, grew fed up with Blade Kingdoms bloodless conflicts and what he considered to be stagnancy of progress. Along with Blade Captain Gilberto Ilégo, they sought to undermine the culture and bring back the bloody conflicts and rise to power among the city-states. During he Festival of the Blades that followed the "white war" of 1217 DR, Svarézi and Ilégo attempted to steal the Sun Gem from the Cappa Mannicci, the Prince-Elect of Sumbira for the use with a new invention - the light lathe, the could melt through castle walls with the right diamond lens use.
In the ensued battle of the Valley of Umbricci, Prince-elect Ricardo was slain after foolishly charging into the enemy combatants. With nothing left of his body, resurrection was out of question. The battle ended with Sumbrias retreat and parley. Gilberto Ilégo usurped the leadership of Colletro and used his spies to provoke an angry mob to a massacre most, if not all, Collertan Blade Captains, solidifying his rule. As the forces of Cappa Mannicci retreated following the officiating the defeat, Gilberto Ilégo unveiled a giant version of a light lathe, powered by the Sun Gem. The new Price of Colletro fired the deadly blast of light that momentary evaporated ice and melted rock over the Valley of Umbricci pass. The attack buried the Sumbrian forces under molten rock.
Following the disastrous defeat, Cappa Manniccis forces were sunken to a mere hundred soldiers, the number too small to hold the position of leadership and too small to even qualify for the Prince-elect vote in the Blade Council of Sumbria.
What followed was a short but grueling 11-Day Civil War between the Blade Houses of Sumbria. The nobles fought against themselves, some for power, some in memory of their leader Cappa Mannicci, some in defense of House Ilégo. The common folk of Sumbria poured into the streets, rioting, demanding the death of the usurper who assassinated their beloved Prince-elect. Alliances quickly shifted, and soon, most of the city was consumed by anarchy. Many of the Blade Houses fell to their opponents, and in the end, only House Ilégo remained at war with the Blade Captain hiding in his fortified mansion. Sumbria quickly fell victim to famine and sickness. The civil war was ended on the 12 day when a long military caravan led by Ugo Svarézi, the new Prince-elect of Colletro was welcomed into Sumbria. Starving and scared folk of the city eagerly accepted the usurpers forces as they brought hands to rebuild, priests to heal, clean water, and most importantly - food. At the time, Sumbrians did not know that the provisions were stolen by Colletran from Sumbrias own hamlets and farms, leaving them completely decimated.
The survivors of Sumbria announced their "savior" as the new Prince-elect of both Sumbria and Colletro. To cement his power, Ugo Svarézi utterly destroyed his clandestine allys fortress, turning it into a pile of molten rock and killing Gilberto Ilégo, putting an end to his Blade House. The final step on the Colletran Prince path to power of Sumbria was symbolic joining with the Mannicci ruling family. Ulia Mannicci, the mountainous widow of Cappa Mannicci, spent the 11-Day Civil War in her own tower of the Palace. The widow gathered almost a hundred young women. She defended them from the ravages of war and ill intentions of men via hurled rocks, chamberpots, and the largest trebuchet battery in the Blade Kingdoms. With the wars end, Ugo Svarézi posed an ultimatum to Ulia, forcing the marriage. The lady refused, seeing through the usurpers intent. Ulia was sentenced to the torture of physical labor and the diet of hardtack and salad greens, and the only thing that could stop it - was the marriage. Ulia Mannicci was not easily broken.
By the following summer, Colletran Prince-elect planned on conquering the rest of the city-states, solidifying his own rule by blood. He ordered his flock to be bread off-season to gather hippogryph cavalry by the following summer and forced the shipyard to build a warship armada by conscripting unwilling farmers and commoners to hard and cruel over the clock labor.
With the spring arriving in the Blade Kingdoms, Ugo Svarézi demonstrated his power and desire to conquer the entire Kingdoms and, later, neighboring regions. The kingdom of Kirenzia was destroyed. The next battle exploded between Ugo Svarézis forces and Lorenzo Utrelli - Milianna Mannicci alliance, Blade Captains of Lomatra, and allied nixie kingdom from the bottom of Akanamere. The tide of the battle was turned by the alliance of magic and science from the minds of Lorenzo and Milianna, who built defensive ceramic tanks that shielded Lomatrans from Svarézis lightning bolts. Subsequently, Ugo Svarézis forces were defeated, and the Blade Kingdoms were given a chance to rebuild and fully adapt "peppercorn democracy."
By the , the kingdom of Kirenzia appeared on the maps of the Vilhon Reach once again.
In 1374 DR, several armed conflicts among neighboring nations sparked among the Blade Kingdoms, the Border Kingdoms, Chessenta, and Threskel. During that time, the Kingdoms existed in a state of regular conflict.
Following the Spellplague, the region of the Blade Kingdoms was consumed by magical chaos and transported to the world of Abeir. With the Second Sundering restoring Toril to its past glory, the Blade Kingdoms returned to the Vilhon Reach.
* Sumbria the biggest city of the Blade Kingdoms, known for its wealth, armies, arts, and sciences.
* Colletro Sumbrias neighbor and rival.
* Lomatra the city-state that was more militaristic and more provincial than Sumbria.
* Valley of Umbricci a lush mountain valley field with vineyards and olive presses. The city-states of Sumbria and Colletro annually warred over the valleys ownership.
* Cappa Mannicci the Prince-elect of Sumbria circa 1217 DR. Hes had a daughter with his first wife - Princess Milianna Mannicci da Sumbria, and eventually married his second wife - Ulia Mannicci.
* Jaka Sculi along with his mother left the Blade Kingdoms for Luskan in 1365 DR. The Sculi family were distant descendants of the mercenary princes from the Blade Kingdoms and Jaka planned on accumulating wealth and eventually returning beck to to the place of his birth.