Burrowville was a halfling town and a vacation destination for adventurers that stood on the Ridge in Amn.
Burrowville stood on the hills between craggy Ridge to the south and the Snakewood to the north. A small baron trail crossed the Ridge and eventually led to a road connected to the towns southern neighbor – Keczulla. Despite being the shortest ride, the trail was rarely used by merchants and travelers who used a much longer road that looped around the Ridge instead, traveling the long way around to Keczulla took over 25 days. The shorter way was a dangerous option as it passed a wild territory of trolls, bugbears, leprechauns, wolves, and cyclopses.
Burrowville was governed by the town council Years after the Zhentarim incident, councilman Malakii Farseer was elected mayor after years of civil service.
The towns main export was the rarest type of tobacco grown exclusively in the fields outside of town.
The tobacco fields were mortgaged by Burrowville in the mid-to-late 14 century DR, due to the towns financial strains due to poor harvest. The annual payments depended on the crops at 12,000 danters per year.
Apart from vacationing and tobacco trade, the hin community kept mules and ponies and grew gooseberries.
In the mid-to-late 14 century DR, a famous stout folk adventuring company, the Short People, used Burrowville as their vacationing spot. During that time, a plot by the dreaded Zhentarim became known to one of the city councilmen – Malakii Farseer. In attempts to establish a foothold in Amn, the Zhentarim purchased Burrowvilles mortgage. If Burrowville could not pay the years mortgage of 12,000 danters on time, the Black Network would claim the towns ownership in foreclosure. This was likely to happen as Burrowville suffered three years of poor harvest due to weather. To make things direr, the Zhentarim bullied local merchants into offering a ridiculously low price for Burrowvilles harvest.
Malakii Farseer enrolled the aid of the famed Short People in escorting crop wagons to the markets of Keczulla, where Burrowville would be able to offer a fair price for the luxurious tobacco. Halfling named Theodore "Badger" Thistledown was put in charge of the shipment.
In reward, the adventurers were given gold from the transaction, permission to construct a shrine to Moradin, a set of silk finery, two of the Short People – Ally Thistledown and Verna Burrtoes, received positions on the town council, while "Badger" Thistledown received a profitable teamster contract.
*Elenor Thistledown, the overprotective hin mother of "Badger" and Ally Thistledown in the mid-to-late 14 century DR.