Calandor was a human duchy on the Sword Coast that existed from 697 DR to 947 DR, created from the destruction of the kingdom of Delimbiyran. Over the centuries it outlasted the other successor realms and eventually become the duchy of Daggerford.
Calandor was located in the lower Delimbiyr Vale south of Ardeep Forest, based around the city of Delimbiyran.
In the , Calandor was one of the realms that formed from the fragmented Kingdom of Man when King Davyd Snowsword left no heir after being assassinated. It was joined by the independent lords of Harpshield, Scathril, Talmost, Loravatha, Secomber, Starshadow Vale and several more, who then fell into a period of competition and civil war with each other.
Soon after in the , orcs of the Horned Horde from the High Forest destroyed several of the newly independent kingdoms, but an alliance of resistance formed under the Duke of Calandors leadership. Secretly aided by the wizards of the future Covenant, Calandors armies successfully mounted a defense and defeated the raiders. Though this did not reunite them as a single kingdom again, few hostilities and conflicts occurred between the claimants afterwards.
In 714 DR, the city of Delimbiyran and the surrounding area was incinerated by a huge magical explosion. The disaster originated from the Battle of Two Gates Fall in Myth Drannor during the Weeping War, caused when the Warriors Gate portal was destroyed and the energies propagated through to Delimbiyran. This broke the power of Calandor and the other surviving splinter realms, and they fell into a long period of decline.
In 882 DR, moon elf refugees from Ascalhorn settled in the Ardeep Forest and attempted to form a new alliance similar to Phalorm or Illefarn, with the effort led by the far-sighted local gold elf Elorfindar Floshin. Unfortunately, the elves suspicions and paranoia resulted in it quickly falling apart.
In the , the Duke of Calandor attempted to reunite the old realms into the Kingdom of Man and crown himself king. This attempt failed due to the lack of support from the nearby human settlements and the active opposition of Secomber.
In 931 DR, a merchant caravan from Baldurs Gate approached the ruins of Morlin Castle on the Delimbiyr River. The young son of a merchant, Tyndal, went ahead to search for a safe ford, but was beset by lizardfolk. He slew six with his dagger at the ford before being rescued, earning himself and the ford a famous reputation.
In the , Calandors martial prowess achieved notoriety once more when the Dukes forces turned the tide at the Battle of Burning Cliffs near Nimoars Hold. Their daring feint broke the siege of the city and effectively ended the Orcfastings War.
In the , the Dukes sole heir Eleesa married the by-now rich and famous Tyndal. When the Duke and his retinue suffered an untimely death in 947 DR—crushed by Cortulorrulagalargaths fall on Delimbiyran—Tyndal was named Duke and began construction of Castle Daggerford atop the former site of Steeping Falls Morlin Castle. From that point, Calandors history ended and Daggerfords began.