Callidae was a secretive icy enclave in the North that was mainly populated by aevendrow but counted also a few Ulutiun humans, arctic dwarves called kurits, and orcs called oroks. The city counted more than 50,000 inhabitants
thumb|right|250px|A map of Callidae.
This enclave was almost completely unknown and, as such, held multiple secrets. The city was located inside a glacier that hosted a primordial of ice.
The city had five boroughs
* Scellobel Considered the heart of Callidae, this was the most populous borough with around 15,000 aevendrow and half that number of non-aevendrow. It was the only borough from which it was possible to live in the glacier.
* Mona Chess The oldest borough, the center of the political power wielded by the Temporal Convocation, the governing council. The Temporal Convocation was located inside the Siglig building.
* Bshett A small and narrow forest from which wood was used for construction and tools.
* Ardin Considered as a garden and the place for keeping the muskox herds.
* Cattisola Lost for many years after being swallowed by the glacier.
The Cascatte cavern was not strictly part of the city. It housed a colony of kurits and oroks.
When the majority of drow followed Lolths ways and descended to the Underdark, a small group instead traveled northward. They established the enclave of Callidae.
Callidae and the glacier were created when Qadeej, a Vaati and one of the Wind Dukes of Aaqa, who had chosen this place to abandon his physical form and pass on to the other side of existence. He was of the wind, of nature and balance, and had an army of cante and ndivi.
Callidae was ruled by a Mona (an elected governor) and a Temporal Convocation (a council).
The aevendrow and other inhabitants lived in a peaceful, joyful, and egalitarian society. As the surrounding environment was hazardous, because of slaadi, dragons, giant, and just the cold climate, they trained hard for battle.
During the autumn, magic didnt work. The four boroughs held a fighting tournament between the four boroughs called the Cazzcalci that was the most important event of the year.
Cuisine here included persimmons and kurit muskox cheese, Scellobelee ice wine, and tagliog (a steak of fatty tail).
The aevendrow of Callidae had a difficult relationship with Eilistraee. Though many agreed with the goodness of the goddess, they also strongly stood in opposition to her demands because Callidae was an isolated community whose most important law was that none outside of Callidae must ever know of its existence.