The Castle Cormanthor was a once-great citadel located at the heart of Myth Drannor, with the city slowly built outward from the castle over the years. In 1369 DR Castle Cormanthor served as the base of operation for the Cult of the Dragon led by Kya Mordrayn.
The map of the Castle Cormanthor Environs.
Castle Cormanthor was a stunning example of elven design and architecture. The body of the citadel was un-evenly shaped with seven spired towers of various sizes reaching out to the sky. The spires were enchanted with a delicate glow that lit up the castle at night and faerie fire danced around the main and the largest tower. This enchantment was still active by the 15th century DR.
The main body of the citadel was three floors tall, with its towers rising up 20-40 feet higher. The many arrow slits in the walls of the Castle were replaced with bigger more attractive windows during the glory days of Myth Drannor. One of the Castles towers was topped with an aerie.
Veering pathways that surrounded Castle Cormanthor had two drawbridges connected to the Windrider Glade area of Cormanthyr. The castles main gates were made out of old and tough-looking dark brown wood reinforced with silver-like metal.
Dragonkins aerie at the top of Castle Cormantor tower.
The Main Hall was a large open area that took most of the first floor of the citadel. The door was adorned with elven carvings and the walls were decorated with luscious tapestries (that lasted into the 14th century mostly undamaged). From the main entryway, a large set of stairs in the center of the hall led up the second floor, and a smaller one - down, to the castles first sub-level. Open smaller doorways led to the six towers of the castle.287x287px|Castle Cormanthors ground floor and two sub-levels layouts.
The dungeon levels of Castle Cormanthor expanded into the Elven Catacombs that were used as barracks during the time of war, elven burial chambers, storage, dungeons, and prisons.>
This level was partially constructed out of precisely mortared stones and partially carved out of the natural rocks the castle stood upon. The floors of the first sub-level were smooth and decorated with carvings of flattened glass and swirling patters reminiscent of various plants and forest beasts. The walls were carved as masterfully as the floors. They resembled decorative imagery of trees, forests, hills, and various scenes of nature. The open floor housed many smaller doors that led to small offices that circled the main area. The level had two sets of stairs, the bigger one went up, and another - down one level. The halls ceiling was held up by several thick rock pillars.
One of the pillars was carved with beautiful elven figures. This column was the Pillar of Seldarine, and depicted about a dozen members of the Seldarinic pantheon. One of the figures stood tall holding a greatsword, another one was a slim winged woman with her legs dissolving into a cloud, an elf that resembled a tree, and an elf holding an hourglass. Another elven face repeated multiple times on the column (Erevan Ilesere). The column was enchanted, one of the elven figures had a stream of clean water trickling down her hands (Hanali Celanil), gathered in a pool at the columns base, moved around the column in a stream, and stopping at a depiction of a sea elf (Deep Sashelas). During the Cult of the Dragons occupation, the pillar was ordered to remain un-vandalized by the leaders.>
The room was lit by torches enchanted with the continual flame spell at night, and during the day the first sub-level was lit with the enchantment that duplicated the daylight outside of the castle.
The second sub-level of the Castle was connected to the Elven Catacombs, sprawling and twisting secret passages that led into Myth Drannor, and led into the chamber of the pool of radiance. This sub-level resembled more of a natural cave than the elf-made carved level above. The walls sprouted occasional glowing crystals that bathed the room with its 20 ft. ceilings in gentle green and white illumination. In 1369 DR, this level of the catacombs was the lair of the Cults dragonkin allies, the dracolich himself, and his young red dragon daughter  Palasiraks.
The pool of radiance chamber was hidden behind a secret door and other passages led through the catacombs towards many exits at the Shaundakuls Throne, lrithlium, Tyrimars Hall, and other location in the ruined city.>
During the Weeping War, countless refugees fled to the Castle for shelter, but that shelter was short-lived as the invading Army of Darkness breached the magical defenses of Castle Cormanthor slaughtering the defenseless civilians in the process.
By 1369 DR, Castle Cormanthor was over a thousand years old and remained almost completely untouched by the destruction of the Weeping War, and ravages of time. This was the year when one of the Cult of the Dragons cells occupied the ruined Myth Drannor. The cultists leader, Kya Mordrayn convinced the cults red dragon ally Pelendralaar to become a dracolich and use his undead power to corrupt Myth Drannors mythal via the pool of radiance under the Castle Cormanthor. The Castle itself became the Cults stronghold until Kya was defeated, and Pelendralaar destroyed by joined forces of three adventuring groups working independently from each other to thwart the plan of the Moonsea regions domination.
The cult allowed their allied dragonkin take over the spacious aerie on the top of one of the spires, while they converted the second floor of the castle, the Silverspear Armory, to hold a massive soul vessel they deposited many souls of enslaved drow of the House Kilsek and orogs captured in the ruins.
In 1369 DR, the Cult of the Dragon, led by Kya Mordrayn was occupying the Castle. Dracolich Pelendralaar was the part of the occupying force and generally could be found in the Castles sub-levels or Elven Catacombs along with his daughter Palasiraks. The cult also kept a zombie dragon as the dracolichs second body in case of the rituals failure. The total number of cultists exceeded a hundred making the Castle heavily populated during that time. With them, the Cult brought a small army of slaves and subservient undead into the Castle and its grounds. A group of dragonkin allied with the Cult of the Dragon could be found inside one of the Castles levels.
Dragonkins main habitat during that time was in the aerie on top of the Castles spire, littered with looted magical items from around the  ruins.
Other members of the Cult of the Dragon of note residing inside Castle Cormanthor were Ellis, Marjon, and Shamoor.
Some of the Castle Cormanthors spires became a home for gargoyles and margoyles that had an uneasy truce with the Cult of the Dragon.