The Cave of the Whispering Wind was the hidden base of Spysong, the covert intelligence network which served the Kingdom of Damara. 
The cave was a natural cavern thoroughly hidden at the end of a concealed ravine. It served as a safe haven for goodly travelers and allies of King Gareth Dragonsbane. It was well-stocked with supplies, including food, drink, medicine, and equipment, and travelers found themselves being generously resupplied if they ever rested there. However, anyone deemed evil or otherwise rowdy or threatening was turned away with prejudice. Regardless of their welcome, no traveler was privy to the fact that the inhabitants of the cave were members of Spysong. However, visitors who displayed the right loyalties and qualities might be interviewed and invited to join the organization.
The cave sat at the end of a concealed ravine within a secret valley located in the Galena Mountains just west of the Duchy of Arcata.
The approach to the Cave of the Whispering Wind was very difficult to find, and was further protected by potent magical wards and glyphs which would thoroughly incinerate intruders. In addition, a pair of veteran guards were always on duty near the cave mouth. They watched the approach from concealed positions, and would hail any approaching individuals. Those who they deemed friends, or who required medical attention, were welcomed inside, while those they deemed enemies were either burnt to a crisp on the spot by the wards, or were sternly turned away under threat of death. If the wards failed to kill an intruder, the guards would fall back to a deadly ballista. 
The cave was discovered sometime before the , by cousins Riordan Parnell and Celedon Kierney as they scouted the Galena Mountains. They thus started Spysong, and chose the hidden cave as their base of operations. With the help of the druid Christine Dragonsbane, the already hidden paths to the cave became even harder to stumble upon, and with the aid of the wizard Emelyn the Grey and the cleric Friar Dugald, the entire area was magically warded against intrusion. By the end of 1359 DR, despite Spysong having quickly made many enemies, none had managed to penetrate their bases magical defenses. 
The cave served as not only a safehouse, but a meeting point and communications hub for Spysong. It was primarily overseen by Riordan Parnell, who would take the opportunity to interview any visitors he deemed to be prospective recruits for his organization. During the mid-to-late 14 century DR, the operations out of the cave were primarily aimed at keeping tabs on the Assassins Guild of the Galenas.
Parnell continued to operate out of the Cave of the Whispering Wind for over a century, and as of the , it continued to serve as the headquarters of Spysong.
At least two skilled fighters were always present and ready to defend the Cave of the Whispering Wind. Riordan Parnell and his closest associates were the members of Spysong most reliably found at the cave, Other notable members of Spysong who frequented the cave included Celedon Kierney, and Kane, who travelled to and from the hidden cave via his carpet of flying and his spirit walking ability.