The Caverns of Karrundax were a series of caves, tunnels and chasms that wound through the volcanic peak of Mount Hotenow on the Sword Coast North. They were named for the fact that the red dragon Karrundax chose its depths within which to make its lair.
300px|The fire giant Pyraphenia standing before the unique architecture found in the caverns
While much of the caverns of Mount Hotenow comprised naturally-occurring rock formations separated by flowing magma that cascaded down walls and along fiery rivers, they were also home to stone structures that obviously carved by some intelligent species. Massive columns of inscribed stone discs formed pillars and arches in certain temple-like structures. With great effort, some of these stone discs could be turned, adjusting the position of stone slabs and forming new passageways in the caverns.
A series of flame shards could be found throughout the caverns, each of which was set within a circle of arcane arcane symbols that emit a glowing radiance from the cavern floor. These could be used as a lesser means of transportation to travel short distances throughout the labyrinthine caverns.
In the heart of the cavern was Karrundaxs nest, within which lay her clutch of her eggs and red wyrmling offspring.
The caverns opened up into the caldera of Mount Hotenow, within which was a slim stone pathway that led to the earthmote upon which Karrundax made its lair.
350px|Karrundaxs lair in the caldera of Mount Hotenow
During the latter half of the 15 century DR, the Cult of Maegera led by the mad giant Gommoth established themselves within the Caverns of Karrundax. They set up some rudimentary living quarters and prison cells, within which they could hold their unfortunate captives. Gommoth conscripted the giant mercenary Pyraphenia to guard over Karrundaxs young, much to her chagrin.
The caverns were home to a myriad creatures that had an affinity for fire, including various types of fire elementals, including fire archons, magma brutes, and flamespikers, as well as fire giants among others. It was also the domain of the Hand of Maegera, an enormous fire elemental that was created by the cultists based on whispers Gommoth heard, presumably from the imprisoned Dawn Titan Maegera herself.