The Channath Vale was a narrow stretch of land comprising a series of hills and forests that formed the southern edge of the Shaar where it met the North Wall mountains. It was a major caravan thoroughfare between the lands of Lapaliiya on the Shining Sea to the west and the Great Rift and Dambrath to the east.
As of the late 15 century DR, much of the Channath Vale was devastated by a changed climate, and was part of the eastern reaches of Elfharrow.
The Channath Vale was a valley centered on the River Channath and River Talar as the former fed the latter flowing east-to-west. The region ran from the Channathwood and Rathgaunt Hills in the east to the Dun Hills in the west, and was bounded to the south by the North Wall, the Bandit Wastes, and the Swagdar, and to the north by the Shaar and Lake Lhespen. which passed through the south side of the Vale.
The region was hot and humid. It was notable for its three jungle-like forests the Channathwood, the Misty Vale, and the Shaareach Forest. The Vale also encompassed a small mountain range known as the Wyrmbones
Woodlands in the Channath Vale were densely overgrown with trees and vines, and edible berries and herbs could be found within. In the drier hills of the Vale, olive trees thrived. Avalathar trees were native to the area.
The Channath Vale was home to a wide array of animals, such as baboons, beguilers, crocodiles, deep bats, dire apes, dire boars, dunscales, giant eagles, giant owls, giant water spiders, goats, hyenas, lions, and snakes. More monstrous fauna included ankhegs, bulettes, chimeras, darkenbeasts, digesters, displacer beasts, ettercaps, gargoyles, girallons, griffons, hippogriffs, krenshars, leucrottas, manticores, nyths, perytons, phase spiders, spectral panthers, and tall mouthers. Dragons were also known to make their home in the Vale, notably bronze, green, and rattelyr dragons.
Some areas of the Vale were haunted by undead&mdashespecially near the many Lapaliiyan tombs in the Dun Hills to the east. Such undead included allips, ghasts, ghouls, mohrgs, shadows, skeletons, spectres, vampire spawn, wights, wraiths, and zombies.
Among halflings, the Channath Vale was known as a land that produced great heroes.
The Vale became one of the easternmost holdings of the Shoon Imperium by . When several Shaaran towns rebelled in the , this led to a brutal reprisal from Amahl Shoon VII against the region known as the Seven Burnings campaign between  and , Shoon armies rampaged through the communities of the Vale and killed or displaced many locals. Despite quelling the rebellion, the Shoon forces were soon forced to withdraw from the Shaar due to outside factors. The area was completely freed from Shoon rule by the end of the .
By the mid-to-late 14 century DR, the trade route through the Channath Vale was frequented by merchants and pilgrims, who in turn were attractive targets for the likes of gnolls, slavers, and bandits. As of , the eastern end of the Vale was menaced by a number of raiders operating out of the Forest of Amtar. This included a motley force led by the ogre mage Tandith Tornears, an unusually organized group of gnolls based in the Gate of Iron Fangs, and a bandit gang known as the Reavers led by the half-fiend Tanushk Versix, Meanwhile, trade through the western end of the Vale was threatened by gnolls from the Wyrmbones being led by a chieftain known as the Wyrm Master.
During the cataclysmic events of the Spellplague of , the eastern side of the Vale was swallowed by the Underchasm. Over the following twenty years, dramatic changes in climate caused the Channath Vale to dry out. The area became a veritable desert, with the Misty Vale coming to be known as the Dead Vale and the western half of the Channath Vale coming to be considered part of the wastes of Elfharrow.
* Channathgate, the easternmost town in the Vale located south of the Channathwood.
* Fryndul, a gnomish village known for exporting cut gems.
* Kormul, a settlement located between the Misty Vale and the Shaareach Forest.
* Rethmar, a city located between the Shaareach Forest and the Channathwood that was located atop natural springs. Rethmar survived the fallout of the Spellplague and subsequently grew as it accepted refugees.
Prior to the Spellplague, several communities and small villages lay along the trade route that passed through the Vale, and survived by servicing the caravans that traveled through them. These settlements were populated notably by Shaaryan and Tashalan humans, ghostwise and strongheart halflings, gnomes, and wood elves, and their populations could swell during the peak of caravan season. For food, these communities grew olives, farmed, herded goats, foraged local flora, and hunted. Their rangers and warriors patrolled the Vale day and night.
These communities had minimal contact with the inhabitants of the nearby woodlands a reclusive and territorial tribe of ghostwise halflings in the Channathwood, and the yuan-ti that inhabited the waterways of the Shaareach Forest. such that it was not uncommon for other inhabitants to learn the gnoll language. The Vale was also known to be home to araneas, bugbears, centaurs, doppelgangers, green abishai, hill giants, hobgoblins, hybsils, orcs, ogres, pterafolk, satyrs, trolls, wereboars, and weretigers. Tribes of nomadic Shaaran humans also crossed into the Vale, herding goats and raiding caravans.
Following the Spellplague and the mass exodus of the wild elves from the dying Misty Vale, these elves became the dominant force from the coast of the Shining Sea to the North Wall. They coexisted tentatively with centaur tribes who had fled to the area from the Shaar Desolation.