Chaunteas Citadel was a fortress on Harvestshield Mountain that stood in ruins as of the late 15 century DR, at which time it came to be occupied by Mrolgyets Legion. The citadel was named for Chauntea, the goddess of agriculture.
The Citadel was most safely accessible via a path on the south side of the mountain. It sat atop a tunnel connecting it to the Heartcoil Deeps, a region of the Underdark beneath Harvestshield Mountain. As of the late 15 century DR, it also contained a tunnel dug by the Snarlclaw trolls that connected the Citadel to the Frostsilver Mines.
The wizards of the ancient Citadel created a number of golems to defend the area, notably a single wizard created a force of flesh golems known as "Harvestshield Reapers" to protect the farmlands from raiders, while other wizards created stone golems known as "Heartcoil Guardians" to patrol the tunnels connecting the Citadel to the Underdark. These various golems were designed to only acknowledge their creators commands, and those of them still active as of the late 15 century DR treated everyone as an enemy.
With the arrival of Mrolgyets Legion in the late 15 century DR, the fortifications were greatly repaired and expanded in order to defend it from both attacking armies and raging dragons.
Prior to the arrival of the red dragon Argathakul between the late 8 and early 15 century DR,Warriors of Waterdeep is set in the late 15 century DR during Laeral Silverhands tenure as Open Lord of Waterdeep, and Laeral states that "Few are still alive who remember how cruelly Argathakul despoiled Harvestshield Mountain, but I do." Laeral was born in , giving the stated range from the late 8 to early 15 century DR. Laeral subsequently describes Argathakul as "young for a dragon", which might suggest a more recent date within this range. Chaunteas Citadel was dedicated to defending the fertile farmlands that sat at the base of Harvestshield Mountain. To that end, the wizards of the Citadel created constructs to defend both the farmers and the Citadel itself. During this time, the Citadel weathered an uprising by a legendary rebel known as Bellorath, who fled to the Heartcoil Deeps after his defeat.
In the late 15 century DR, the Citadel was claimed by the hobgoblin warlord Mrolgyet and his Legion, who set about fortifying it, subjugating or recruiting allies, and planning for an invasion against the Lords Alliance. The Legion was defeated and scattered by the combined efforts of a Lords Alliance army and a band of adventurers in the service of the Open Lord of Waterdeep, Laeral Silverhand.
With the arrival of Mrolgyets Legion in the late 15 century DR, the Citadel was used to garrison a large force of goblinoids and giantkin, as well as the occasional chimera.