Chukei Province was the northernmost province of the empire of Shou Lung in Kara-Tur by the 14 century DR. In ancient times, it was Chuta Te, first a province of Anok-Imaskar and later an independent realm in its own right, before becoming Chuta Te Province of early Shou Lung. It largely encompassed the Chukei Plateau.
By the 14 century, the Chukei Plateau was a vast plain scoured by winds and stricken with droughts. There was little water and sparse grasses. Nights were freezing cold.
The early name "Chuta Te" could be translated to "The Great".
By around , the land was a part of the empire of Anok-Imaskar. The empire collapsed in , fracturing into a number of warring states, among them the new independent realm called Chuta Te.
According to Shou legend, the empire of Shou Lung first began here, when it was known as Chuta Te Province. At this time, the land was a green and open plain, where barley and millet grew and the empire flourished. However, the destruction of the Imperial city of Kuo Meilan in inferno and drought changed all this. Those left alive migrated southward, leaving behind a dry wasteland.
The folk of Chukei stood as the tallest of the Shou peoples. They typically had high cheekbones and brown or reddish hair, in contrast with the typical black, such that the Shou word for a redhead was "chukien". The Chukei people had a reputation for courageous bearing reflected in a cold anger, alongside a fairly wild temperament.
They were known to be talented horse-riders and swordfighters.
They spoke a dialect of the empires Kao te Shou language, called Chukei Kao. It sounded blunt and harsh compared to the empires other dialects.
The Chukei people produced Northern Cuisine, which included a number of noodle dishes.
For officials of the Shou Lung empire, Chukei Province was never ones first posting. Instead, it was the destination of those whod failed or disgraced themselves, being essentially a punishment.
Chukei Province was home to Fukiow, a large mining city Kangste, a major trade town and Chaoyang, which maintained a border garrison at the meeting of the Spice Road and the Kuangchiu Road.
The great city of Kuo Meilan, abandoned and shunned, rested in the center of the Chukei Plateau, surrounded by a landscape devoid of life.
The Chukei Plateau was claimed to be haunted by ghosts from Kuo Meilan, screaming endlessly through the chill night.