Chunming was a city in the Ausa Province of Tu Lung.
It stood on the southwestern shore of Sunob Bay, below the Straits of Vashung, and at the foot of the hills of Esang Yi.
Northwest of Chunming was a clear plain used for agriculture, beyond which lay more of the hills. Tracks led to the farming communities of Horuju, Shokwa, Kurutax, Tu Luan, Kangsun, Tsengdo, and Ansuwan. Beyond this lay more of the Esang Yi Hills.
Chunming was a part of the Shin District in the Ausa Province of Tu Lung. From his castle west of Chunming, Shin So Tang administered the district named for his family. Believing the reigning Wai clan were usurpers, he had long plotted against them and the emperor.
Chunming pepper wine was a product of Chunming.
Around 2603 (1353 DR), a merchant of Chunming, Mah Tehwa, made a deal with a hu hsien dwelling in the hills, O-me-sa. Tehwa promised his own daughter, Mah Su-liang, to the fox-man when she reached the age of 15 in exchange for prosperity in his business, via the hu hsiens reward spells. Although he suspected O-me-sa wanted his daughter for a wicked purpose, Tehwa hardly cared. A deal such as this was already a crime punishable by death by torture.
In the month of Ju of 2607 (1357 DR), Emperor Wai Gada Sinzu was poisoned via chunming pepper wine served to him. Surviving after a grave illness, he accused the Shin clan and demanded the heads of their leaders. However, the Shin clan received warning and escaped into the hills of Esang Yi. It was rumored they were allied with the Nugha tribesmen, and neither could be found. By Imperial edict, a reward of 15,000 chien was offered to any who could locate and capture the Shins. Incidentally, two months later, in Kao, Nugha riders seized the Ye Tsau Well in the hills of Esang Yi and forbade anyone to take water there. A posse of 100 warriors from Chunming and Ausa mustered and went to reclaim the well, but the tribesmen vanished before they arrived.
In 2608 (1358 DR), the elderly Prince Wan desired the then-14-year-old Su-liang of Chunming and Tehwa arranged a marriage between them, in exchange for higher station and lucrative trade concessions. He then schemed to cheat O-me-sa and cover his own crimes by passing off a slave girl, Kui-lo, as his daughter to the hu hsien. However, when O-me-sa requested her on her 15 birthday, a twist of fate saw Su-liang go to O-me-sas emissary anyway. Thus, Tehwa sought adventurers in the Inn of a Thousand Swords to retrieve her.
* The Inn of a Thousand Swords
* The House of Mah, a large and modest house close to the southwestern city gate