Fortress
Citadel Rashemar was a ruined keep in the Sunrise Mountains in east Rashemen. It began as a ring-shaped fortress until it was besieged by the Tuigan Horde and although the horde was conquered, the village was never rebuilt.
The citadel comprised a central keep that was encircled by a great stone wall, that was some  in diameter. The outer walls of the fortress were dotted with a number of tall towers that held strong wards that protected them from long-range magic. The central keep was connected to the towers on the outer walls by means of underground passages.
The ruined stonework of the citadel was later rearranged by the monstrous creatures that made it their lair. Rubble was formed into crude structures that allowed for easier movement of the goblinoid war bands, though some were large enough for even an ogre.
The fortress was situated amongst the northern slopes of Rashemens High Country.
As of its final year standing as a fortress of Rashemen, the citadel was ruled by Lord Yegar.
After its destruction, the ruins were claimed by the durthan Chaul, a powerful annis hag and terrible foe of the Wychlaran.
In the , the citadel was overrun by the Grand Army of the Tuigan when they invaded the nation of Rashemen. While the main invasion force continued deeper into the country, 5,000 attackers were left behind to lay siege to the citadel. The defending troops held out for three months into the following year, but finally succumbed to the Tuigan besiegers. The horde slew everyone remaining within the fortress, and leveled every last structure.
After the citadels destruction, raiders from the High Country ransacked and looted villages in eastern Rashemen completely unimpeded.
Circa the mid–14 century DR, local rumors circulated about fantastic treasures found within the depths of the citadel, along with the helpless spirits that roamed its ruins without purpose.
During its glory days, Citadel Rashemaar was home to the great army of the Rashemaar people. These fierce warriors protected the stretch of the Golden Way that passed through the heart of the nation.
The upper ruins of citadel were later infested by goblin minions and their monstrous spider mounts, while the lower levels were claimed by Chaul and her Luthic-worshiping half-orc lieutenant Durakh Haan.
* Dendurg Two-Axe, the ogre bodyguard of Chaul.
* Vorshk the Worm, a powerful goblin spellcaster.