Clan
The Citadel of Strategic Militancy was a fortress dedicated to the Red Knight.
This building was the heart of the Church of the Red Knight, and was considered its most major center of worship. The top of the citadel was topped with a great red dome, and the walls were fashioned in a chequered red-and-white pattern.
Inside the fort was a gigantic lanceboard that served as the main chapel. Clerics of the Red Knight were known to use this board to study military strategy and practice tactical battling.
Farms stretched outward in approximately a  radius as the priesthood expanded the citadels territory. During cold winters, the militant clergy would carry out training in these fields.
Rarely, the leader of the citadel was known to call all of their officers back in order to lead them into combat. Though many members of the Church of the Red Knight were stationed here, several of its members travelled elsewhere to teach military strategy.
The citadel was situated about  away from the nearest major settlement, Baldurs Gate of the Western Heartlands. Specifically it was located at the intersection between Thundars Ride and the Coast Way.
Prior to its foundation, the founder-to-be Taric Bloodhawk of the Bloodhawk clan, was involved in battles in 1241 DR. During his battles, he and his clan ransacked an orc chieftains stronghold an acquired a grand horde. With the wealth he had acquired, he constructed the castle about 100 years before 1370 DR. The fort became the hold of his clan.
During the Time of Troubles, the last heir of Lord Ronlar Bloodhawk, Lady Kaitlin Tindall Bloodhawk, left the stronghold to explore Tempuss Tears to the northeast of the stronghold. During the night, she became the avatar host of the Red Knight herself. Together with her band, the Company of the Red Falcon, she ventured south and put down a group of monsters that charged out of the Forest of Tethir. Due to this grand battle, they earned the graititude of the Tethyrians. After her grand success, she returned home to the citadel. Unfortunately, her success would come at an enormous cost the citadel had been razed and all of her clan and their workers, had been slain. She rebuilt the fort to memorialise those who had fallen, and declared it a holy temple to the Red Knight.
In 1370 DR, the fort was well structured and protected, and became the home of the Red War College. Many lords across Faerûn sent their officers to the Citadel of Strategic Militancy to become skilled military commanders. During this era, High Lady Bloodhawk commanded the fort as the First Lady Knight of the Red Standard, and many of her knights of the Order of the Red Falcon became instructors in the Red War College.