Closeguard Island, also called Closeguard Isle or simply Closeguard, was an island that sat in the mouth of the River Mirar in the city of Luskan. It was notable as the headquarters of the High Captain of Ship Kurth.
As headquarters of Ship Kurth, the main landmark on this rocky island was Kurth Tower, 
Belowground, partially flooded tunnels infested with undead connected Closeguard Island to crypts beneath the Ruins of Illusk, and from there, to a network of sewers and tunnels throughout Luskan that led as far down as the Underdark. A hidden underwater cave below the western rim of Closeguard led directly into these underground tunnels.
Closeguard Island was one of five islands in Luskan (the others being Blood Island, Cutlass Island, Fang Island, and Harbor Arm Island). Closeguard lay between Cutlass Island to the east and the Ruins of Illusk on Luskans South Bank to the west. It was connected to Cutlass Island via the Sword Bridge and to the South Bank via the Dark Arch bridge. It sat just upstream of Dragon Beach and just downstream of Blood Island, although it was not connected to either of these.
While the island was protected by guards as of the mid-to-late 14 century DR, it was unguarded by the late 15 century DR, however anyone who was not a known member of Ship Kurth or the Arcane Brotherhood was quickly singled out regardless. The island was protected via a ward placed on the Dark Arch which alerted the Arcane Brotherhood if anyone not affiliated with them were to cross it. Sword Bridge, in turn, was defended by battle horrors.
During the mid&ndash1360s DR, the Archmage Arcane Arklem Greeth personally strengthened the magical defenses of the island, particularly those of the Dark Arch bridge and of Kurth Tower.
In the , when Deudermont led an effort to unseat Arklem Greeth and break the Arcane Brotherhoods grip on Luskan, Closeguard Island became a critical strategic position as it controlled access to the Brotherhoods Host Tower of the Arcane on Cutlass Island. While High Captain Kurth tentatively supported Deudermont, he had his men blockaded both the east and west bridges of Closeguard, which trapped the Brotherhoods wizards on Cutlass Island but also forced Deudermont to attack the Host Tower by sea. Kurth was fearful of the chaos that would ensue if he committed to one side or the other, which would push the other High Captains to take sides as well, At the conclusion of the battle, when Greeth caused an explosion that destroyed the Host Tower, the blast was destructive enough to incinerate a number of homes on the western shore of Closeguard.
Following the downfall of the Arcane Brotherhood, Ship Kurth fortified Closeguard Island as the city of Luskan descended into chaos. A number of the Brotherhoods survivors took up residence on the island at that time, under the protection of Kurth.
By , Captain Borlann of Ship Rethnor had taken up residence on the island.
In the , Closeguard Island was assailed by a horde of demons, gnolls, goblins, ogres, and pirates as part of House Margasters invasion of Luskan. While some of these invaders laid siege to Kurth Tower, others crossed the island to attack Cutlass Island.
* Kurth Tower, the fortress residence of High Captain Kurth.
* The Crows Nest, a thin stone tower built by Borlann of Ship Rethnor in the mid&ndash15 century DR.
* A fortified "guesthouse" for prisoners of the Arcane Brotherhood. Such prisoners were either kept under guard in the house or chained in the dungeons beneath it.