The Colossus of Dukar was a gigantic monument in the underwater city of Myth Nantar depicting the near-mythical triton of the same name, the first Grand Master of the Dukars, an ancient Serôsian order of wizards.
The Colossus stood within the Dukar Quarter of Myth Nantar, next to the Dukars Academy, with its legs straddling the entrance to Dukars tomb.
This statue stood  tall, making it the tallest structure in the city. It was completely carved from lucent coral, which naturally gave off a bright glow and thus made the Colossus the source of one-fourth of all light in Myth Nantar. It depicted Dukar with his legendary Grandmasters Tapal raised overhead in his right arm.
The Colossus was notably the site of one of the few portals within the city that the dukar Qos would freely divulge to anyone. This hidden portal opened to the former gates of the city of Akhanmyr and in order to activate it one had to swim in a loop around the Colossuss head three times before swimming straight upwards.
In , a group of dukar of the Jhimari and Numos orders went rogue, wanting to transform Myth Nantar into their own city-state by the name of Nantarum. Sometime later around , on the day the merfolk king Ristan laid siege against them, the thirty rogue dukars were standing around the Colossus of Dukar as the citys mythal let off bursts of magical energy. The dukars were later found by the attackers to have been petrified into coral statues, lining the avenue leading to the Dukars Academy, their faces frozen with looks of contrition.
On Marpenoth 30, 1369 DR, when Iakhovas and his forces launched an assault upon the city of Myth Nantar the Oghmanyte bard Pacys stood atop the Colossus of Dukar, overlooking the battle. From there he played upon his instrument saceddar, singing a ballad he had written for Myth Nantars defenders to magically inspire them.
Late in the year 1370 DR, among the thirty petrified dukars a sea elf of the Order of Jhimar by the name of Radom mysteriously returned to life, leaving only twenty-nine petrified dukars around the Colossus.