The Conclave of Silverymoon (also called the University of Silverymoon) was a great university of magic and a center of learning and wisdom in the city of Silverymoon, created by Alustriel Silverhand as one of her last acts as High Mage.
The Conclave of Silverymoon taught all manners and "schools" of magic and knowledge related to magic. Individual colleges within the university system focused on particular specialties.
The university did not have a single location in the city, but its individual institutions were found on both sides of the River Rauvin. However, several of the schools were clustered together in a Southbank campus, where fourteen buildings were originally set aside for university use. These buildings included the original locations of the Ladys College and Miresks School of Thaumaturgy.
The university was in part funded by Alustriel herself, who sponsored promising students tuition and the private research projects of various faculty members.
At the universitys founding, the wizard Eltro Miresk was appointed Magus Senior, director of the entire university. while Arkhen the Icy was named Magus Invoker and head of the Invocation School.
For many years, there had been talk about joining together the many magic schools within the city of Silverymoon. Finally, in Marpenoth of 1369 DR, High Lady Alustriel had convinced most of the independent schools to merge under a single institution of knowledge.
280px|Fan art of Arkhens Invocatorium, one of the members of the Conclave.
In addition to other smaller schools, the Conclave included the following institutions
 Arkhens Invocatorium  A school of sorcery (as opposed to wizardry).
 Everdusk Hall  An elven temple and lorehouse.
 The House of the Harp/College of Fochlucan  A bardic college.
 The Ladys College  A school of wizardry and magic history.
 The Map House  A storehouse of maps.
 Miresks School of Thaumaturgy  Where new applicants to the university were first evaluated.
 Utrumms Music Conservatory  A school of music.
 The Vault of the Sages  The citys library.