The Crypts of the Vigilant Eye, also known as the Crypt of Vigilance,The Neverwinter Campaign Setting refers to the Crypts of the Vigilant Eye being located directly beneath Helms Hold, while the Neverwinter video game refers to a Crypt of Vigilance that was built beneath Watchers Forest. According to the Crypt of Vigilances in-game lore entry, the crypt was built beneath the forest so that "the large funeral complex (doesnt weaken) the ground beneath Helms Hold itself". The lore entry then conflates the two names, using them both to apparently refer to the same location. For the purposes of the wiki it is assumed both names refer to the same location, which will be described as being located beneath Helms Hold. were a secret burial place for the Watchers faithful located beneath Helms Hold, a veritable city beneath a city.
The crypts were built as a resting place for the followers of Helm,
While the halls of the crypts were decorated with statues of proud knights and its tombs were adorned with Helms holy symbol, its deeper levels featured more enigmatic imagery. Some hidden alcoves featured tall skeletal figures draped in robes, standing in stark contrast to the armored sentinels that were more commonly encountered.
The Crypts of the Vigilant Eye were predominantly located under Helms Hold, they extended as far east as the Watchers Forest area of the Neverwinter Wood.
The the crypts were built within natural caverns and tunnels of old civilizations that long predated the city of Helms Hold. They were accessible by means of a lone stone tower found in the .
The only defense the crypts had against intruders were the spirits of the fallen Helmite faithful, whose remains were interred within.
The crypt complex served as the resting place for Helms faithful long before the construction of Helms Hold. They were first discovered in the , when builders were beginning work on the Cathedral of Helm within the Hold. The ghostly protectors of the crypts rose that same year, following the divine death of Helm himself.
In the late 15 century DR, the succubus Rohini rose to power in Helms Hold and allowed the Abolethic Sovereignty to claim the crypts for their own devices. The aberrant beings from the Far Realm dispatched horrid undead monstrosities and foulspawn began to appear throughout the maze-like tunnels of crypts. Unfortunately, the Helmite ghosts could take no direct actions against the Sovereigntys Symphony of Madness, concentrated "Spellplague energy" that emanated from the Hex Locus and permeated the halls of the crypts.
The Helmite ghosts and the Sovereigntys servants were not the only residents of the crypts. A band of Uthgardt barbarians of the Gray Wolf Tribe infiltrated the Crypts of the Vigilant and became trapped within.
Some time circa the , Ashmadai cultists serving Rohini took over an area of the crypts for their own ends. The cult leader Halas the Pure ventured into the tombs in order to complete rituals that would summon devils into Helms Hold. They even managed to corrupt one of the ghosts of a Helmite paladin and turned it against their enemies. Fortunately the Hero of Sleeping Dragon Bridge managed to stop their efforts, slay their leader Halas, and put the spirits of the fallen to rest.
It was rumored that the crypts may have been originally built by cultists of Myrkul or some other ancient god of death.