century DR.
Daggerford was a small but consequential town located in the Delimbiyr Vale within the greater Sword Coast. While it was primarily a farming community, and considered by some to be a mere stopover, the town had great ambitions to grow and be seen as an alternative to their northern neighbor of Waterdeep. 
Despite its modest size and somewhat inflated sense of importance, Daggerford was resilient. It was something of a relic from the old kingdom of Delimbiyr, too stubborn to fall even when a series of wars, crusades, and other conflicts threatened the entirety of the Sword Coast. Daggerfords coat-of-arms was a silver dagger, covered in blood atop a field of dark blue.
It was a walled settlement with a population that by and large lived in the outlying hamlets, farms, and estates, rather than within the town proper. As such, the streets of Daggerford were not densely populated.
Surrounding the town wall was a modest moat, with three crossing points at each of the towns three gates — the Farmers Gate in the north, the Caravan Gate in the west, and the River Gate in the south.
Sitting atop a hill in the center of Daggerford was the grand Ducal Castle, which was technically older than the town itself.
right|250px|The flag of Daggerford (right) with those of Waterdeep and the Flaming Fist
Circa the , the Baatezu named Gorgomorz became the infamous "Daggerfords Devil", slaughtering countless innocents and aiming at Daggerfords destruction. Gorgomorz was banished by the young Duke Edwin Daggerfords trap but he was gravely injured in battle and shortly passed.
The town of Daggerford was given sovereignty in the  by Duke Conan Daggerford. He allowed for the formation of the Council of Guilds, the ruling body that has governed the town ever since.
Daggerford was the site of a great battle, when it was assaulted by the hordes of fiends that poured out from Dragonspear Castle in the . The town was defended and its assailants defeated by combined forces of elves, dwarves, and men. 
In the , Daggerfords army lent 50 of their soldiers, one-tenth of the towns population, to the Coalition army. They fought under the command of General Haither Stonehand who knew each of her soldiers personally.
Also around that time, lizardfolk under the command of a lich named Redeye began extorting Duke Pwyll the sum of tens of thousands of gold pieces. The duke in turn hired several adventuring companies to remove the threat to the duchy.
Sometime in the , a group of trolls began to infest Daggerfords sewer system.
Derval Ironeater claimed the city of Daggerford had no skilled tattooists within its walls as around this time in its history.
In , Duke Pwyll Daggerford seeming perished during a hunt, gored by a wild beast. Daggerford mourned the death of the citys leader even though many found his deaths circumstances highly suspicious. Shortly after, a wealthy merchant and a member of the city council Matagar Bugo proclaimed himself the new Duke. His great mercantile aspirations of turning Daggerford into a trading juggernaut to rival Waterdeep encountered unfortunate circumstances of bandits ambushing trade caravans in the middle of the day, secretly Zhentarim agents, orc forces supplied with weapon shipments that passed through Daggerford. The city militias investigation bore no success. 
Eventually, Astriel Shalyn, an agent of the Lords Alliance, a traveling adventurer, and their companions Purfbin Doogrick and Raegen Brunegar involved themselves to untangle the schemes and plots surrounding these events. Their investigation uncovered the Zhentarim forces entering a dark alliance with the infamous baatezu Gorgomorz and the tanarukk of Dragonspear Castle. The Zhentarim planted the puppet ruler Bugo to take over Daggerford, while Gorgomorz sought to destroy the town. 
Zhentarim planned on betraying Gorgomorz. Once the devils orcs invaded Daggerford, Zhentarim would lead Matagars griffon mercenaries to defeat the invaders, imprison Gorgomorz inside a magical orb, and leave Matagar Bugo as a puppet ruler with the full support of the citizens and the Lords Alliance.
Astriels adventurers tracked the Duke and his sister Bronwyn to Illefarn, where they being kept under guard by the Griffons Mercenary Company. Pwyll and Bronwyn Daggerford were freed, and Astriel with her adventurers took a stand against Gorgomorz. In the end, they slew the devil, and returned Duke Pwyll back to the throne of Daggerford.
At some point prior to the Second Sundering, the duchy of Daggerford entered into the Lords Alliance.
Around the , Duke Maldwyn became involved with a woman named Natyssa. She was in fact a succubus called Pencheska working for Tarul Var of Thay, both of whom sought the dukes death. The duke himself became possessed by the spirit of Baazka, the pit fiend who orchestrated the Second Dragonspear War a century before. 
The succubus and the spirit of the pit fiend attempted to murder Duke Maldwyn and incriminate a group of adventurers. While it was unknown how the conflict between the groups actually played out, Pencheska was able to imprison the dukes sister Lady Morwen in Cromms Hold, assume her likeness, and succeed her "brother" as Daggerfords new duchess. By the time the ordning was broken, when the region was being assaulted by giants, she had brokered an agreement with the Zhentarim to ensure the "safety" of her people.
As of the , "Lady Morwen" was still serving as the towns duchess. It was unknown if the individual was the real duchess or still the succubus Pencheska posing as her. Around this time, the "duchess" sent a recently formed adventurers group to search for Christos Tellum, the noble heir to Tellums Hold. The nobleman and his party went missing in the Dessarin Valley after some recent forest fires. The young nobleman was soon delivered to the "duchess" along with the mysterious magical flask he had set out to recover. 
After the flask was brought into the town, Daggerford was briefly plagued by a vampire, Dar Lavien who unleashed the undead on the population. Dar Lavien was slain by the same adventuring group sent to recover Tellum. 
The "duchess" used the adventurers to recover the Ambergul Blade under the pretense that its magic was needed to restore Christos Tellums health. The blade wound up in the hands of the rakshasa Nadir, who utilized a slaadi portal to once again throw Daggerford into chaos. In the ensuing mayhem, the Ambergul Blade was used to uncork the mysterious magical flask, releasing an ancient red dragon called Karrnsyrrl. The dragon caused significant damage to Daggerford but departed shortly thereafter, along with Nadir and the young Christos.
The ballad Peredus the Great, written about a local caravan guard named Peredus, was quite popular in the Daggerford area of the Sword Coast.
Despite its rather small size and modest population, Daggerford was divided into four different quarters
 Ducal Castle The centerpiece of Daggerford was its long-standing castle, that had served the dukes of Daggerford since the age of Tyndal. The Ducal Castle had a secret passage into the city, constructed by the Castles dwarven builders. In 1372 DR it was used by Gorgomorz forces to infiltrate Daggerford.
 Morninglow Tower Though it was previously dedicated to Lathander, this beautifully-built temple later became a holy house of the revived deity Amaunator.
 Marketplace Local grocers, farmers, and other merchants congregated within the towns open market twice a tenday in order to sell their goods.
 Drill fields This wide-open area
 Caravan Grounds This area was used to house the carts and wagons of those merchants and caravaneers who came to town for business. All manner of folks could be found among the drivers and caravan guards as they hailed from realms all across the Sword Coast.
 Tannery When Daggerford was inflicted with sickness during the mid–15 century DR, the citizens blamed the local guild of tanners and forced them to relocate the tannery outside of town, on the opposite side of the Trade Way.
 River Quarter This area of the town held the citys docks and served those whose jobs revolved around ships and sea trade. Dockworkers unloaded cargo from ships that were bound for transport along the Trade Way, while some skippers and rivermen transported people down the Delimbiyr River to Secomber and the surrounding settlements. Some of the landmarks within the River Quarter included the towns jail and constabulary,stables, and the militias barracks and next to the quarter, the massive Sullerton Shipbuilders.
 Caravan Quarter Catering to those individuals passing through town on trade business, this area of Daggerford comprised several shops and businesses, guildhalls, as well as a number of boarding houses. As such, it was nearly devoid of activity during the winter months, when caravan travel all but ceased. Notable locations included the grand Lady Luck Tavern, Millers Dry Goods, and Fairfortune Hall.
 Farmers Quarter As the name suggested, many farmers and other folks that lived off the land made their home within this part of Daggerford. Animal pens and small livestock paddocks were a common sight throughout its streets. Cromachs Smithy, and the Harvest House, the local temple to Chauntea.
 Money Quarter Easily the most affluent region of town, this quarter comprised grand buildings that were built nearest to the ducal castle. and a number of private residences.
Due to its grand ambitions and rather one-sided rivalry with Waterdeep, Daggerford was able to attract scores of skilled craftsmen and artisans. Nearly everyone in Daggerford knew one another and outsiders were readily welcomed, especially if they were looking to patronize the towns businesses.
* Lady Bronwyn Daggerford, a skilled wizard that was rumored to be a member of the Harpers
* Sir Llewellyn Longhand, the dukes master-at-arms
* Gwydion pen Dafwyd, court wizard to Duke Pwyll
* Delfen Ondabarl, a resident mage who often took on local apprentices
* Galass Tholt, an elderly druid who was called "crazy" by some
* Nanteuil, a dwarf cleric of Marthammor Duin who lived at the intersection of Kaoth Alley and Water Street near the River Gate.
* Curran Corvalin, an exceptionally wealthy halfling and the custodian of the Fairfortune Hall shrine
* Kelson Darktreader, Master of the Hunt who has served Daggerford for well over a century
* Filarion Filvendorson, an extended member of the Floshin family
* Darfin "Longwalker" Floshin, an aged elf that took on his fathers burden as the protector of secret magic within the Ardeep Forest
* Jekk Ironfist, a retired gladiator from the Moonsea city of Hillsfar
* Sir Isteval, a retired Cormyrean knight who sought to share the virtues of his realm with the folks of the west