The dark fey enclave was a region of the Feywild that was corrupted by malignant forces that originated from the Feydark. It was named for the dark fey denizens that took up residence within its numerous swamps, groups that were led by the fomorian witch Magra Curse-Eye.
While the region was said to once be a land that was pure and beautiful, it was degraded and poisoned into a particularly debased state. The waters were fouled by the corruptive magic of fomorian witches and the forest was stripped of its natural resources by their redcap minions.
The Banshee Gate portal connected an area near the southern bank of the enclave to the elven settlement of New Sharandar.
The enclave was located in not far from New Sharandar. It comprised two noxious swaths of wetlands that were formed from a once-great and beautiful river that ran through and amongst the Feywilds great trees.
The upper bank of the former river was located in the northern region of the enclave, while the southern bank was in the southern end. Winding passageways set into the stone separated the stagnant waters of the Putrid Fen in the southwest from the Horrid Mire that pooled in the northeast.
When the dark fey took over the region, they introduced new malevolent creatures and harmful flora into the local ecosystem. Notable among these were witchcap toadstools, a large variety of mushroom that were harmful to the touch.
thumb|300px|The outpost formed by the Iliyanbruen elves of New Sharandar
The enclave was a base for forces of the fomorian King Malabog who had been driven from the ruins of Sharandar. As they conducted a campaign against the fey settlement of New Sharandar, circa the , a group of elves led by Finderal Birchspear formed an outpost around a group of standings stones near the southern bank. He used this forward position to strike out against the witches of the swamp and disrupt their foul magics that plagued the region.
Swamps and Wetlands
* Horrid Mire, an overwhelmingly foul bog that was overcast with toxic swamp gas.
* Putrid Fen, the disgusting wetland in which lived a great number of fell trolls.
* Witch Fen, the swamp domain of the awful Magra Curse-Eye and her coven of fomorian witches.
All manner of dark fey dwelled within the swamps of the enclave, including a great number of fomorians, cyclopes, trolls, redcaps, and quicklings.