Darmshall was a small city in the hostile lands of Vaasa in the Bloodstone Lands.
Darmshall was surrounded by farmland and ranches,
The city sat in the north of the Sunderland, a region of southeastern Vaasa, in the foothills of the Galena Mountains. It lay at the eastern terminus of Dead Mans Walk, the primary trade route across Vaasa. It was not far south from the Vaasan Gate of Bloodstone Pass. The land around the town was dedicated to farming and ranching.
Darmshall was as much a fortress as it was a city. It was surrounded by capable stone walls lined with siege weaponry and five hundred grizzled soldiers. Beneath the city was a huge storage facility for food and supplies to enable the city to withstand long periods of isolation.
The city was founded by the Tenblades adventuring band during the early explorations of the Bloodstone Lands. The groups leader, Romas Thunderclap, built the fortress to act as a bastion of order in Vaasa after two of his companions were murdered. His efforts were successful, as even during the conquests of Zhengyi the Witch-King, Darmshall never fell, despite being besieged by many goblins.
In the 1460s DR, the Warlock Knights of Vaasa conquered the city in a quick and bloody siege. By 1480 DR, the citys granaries served as a breadbasket for their troops stationed in Bloodstone Pass, and the Knights had begun mustering in the city in increasing numbers, preparing for war. The citys free population by this time was mostly humans.
At some point in the decade after the defeat of the Witch-King Zhengyi, a relic of his mysteriously appeared just north of Darmshall. It was a grand statue of a dragon that rapidly grew to enormous size, not unlike how Castle Perilous had appeared over the course of a single night. However, before the dragon could be investigated, it sank into a bog.
In the mid-to-late 14 century DR, the town was inhabited mostly by male settlers of the area drawn to the region following Zhengyis defeat. The leader of the town, Gelgar Talonguard, was known to send agents to the Dragon Reach, Impiltur, and Telflamm to try to recruit more females. She was mainly concerned with keeping an eye on Castle Perilous to the north
During the reign of the Warlock Knights in the late 15 century DR, the town was occupied by the Knights forces and otherwise was mostly populated by human serfs working as farmers or ranchers. It was notable for having a fairly small non-human population relative to other cities in Vaasa.