Dekanter (), formally the Mines of Dekanter, were ruins found beneath the Graypeak Mountains in the Savage Frontier.
Dekanter was once a mine of Netheril. It has since fallen into ruin. The legacy of Netheril remains within the ruins as the dangerous side effects of powerful spellcasting.
Dekanters main chamber was built as an enormous amphitheater built to giant-sized scale. The center of the bowl-shaped cavern was about  wide, surrounded by five receding levels each at least  high and just as much wide. Human-sized stairs crisscrossed the tiers all the way up to their uppermost level.
Side chambers in the mines were marked by Dethek inscriptions, and decorated with grand paintings depicting scenes from the oldest epic stories of the Realms. The tunnels that interconnected these chambers were difficult to navigate and nearly impossible to map out, as every rainfall caused some of them to close down or collapse, while others became open.
Dekanter was located west of Anauroch and to the south of Weathercote Wood in the eastern foothills of the Graypeak Mountains. The crumbling ruins were surrounded by low hills. As of the 15 century DR, it lay on the western border of the reborn Empire of Netheril.
The ruins of Dekanter was home to beholders, gargoyles and goblins.
In , Dekanter, a Netherese miner, discovered a massive deposit of gold, iron, mercury, platinum and silver. Netheril quickly established the mines of Dekanter, named after its discoverer.
By , all the minerals were extracted and it became a sort of laboratory for Netherese mages. Since the mine was able to isolate the potentially negative effects of a spell, it was used as a testing ground for new spells. It was also used as a storage facility for magical items. It was abandoned with the fall of Netheril.
thumb|Adventurers exploring the mines.
For centuries war was waged within Dekanter between different factions of goblinoid communities. The severity of these conflicts ebbed and flowed throughout the years.
During the Era of Upheaval, beginning in the , the war within Dekanter spilled out beyond the mines into the surrounding mountains. Around this time they were were also used as a site for the Zhentarim to conduct their slave trade. Within ten years, the war had become out of control, spilling out into the surrounding mountains
In the , a group of travelers ventured into Dekanter and recovered one of the fabled Nether Scrolls from the clutches of the mysterious cult leader that took over as ruler of the ruins goblin population.
The lure of lost Netherese magic meant that the mines remained a draw for adventurers well into the late 15 century DR despite the many dangers.
It was rumored that Dekanter was the location of an entrance into a vast subterranean land beneath Faerûn.
Dekanter was home to a particularly nasty and sinister beholder who was an agent for the Zhentarim. It guarded the Dawn Pass, with the aid of its gnoll minions, for the Zhentarim, allowing only Zhent caravans to use the pass to cross through the Greypeak Mountains.
The mind flayer known as the Beast Lord was known to have its lair in the ruins of Dekanter. Within its lair, the Beast Lord created twisted monsters, such as bulettes, stegocentipedes, peryton, beholders, and mongrelmen. One of his most famous creations were the Dekanter goblins. To aid the illithid in his war in the North, the Beast Lord had an army of 500 goblins and 50 gargoyles.