outside its borders,  from withinDiameter outside,  from withinThe discrepancy between these seeminhly impossible dimensions can be attributed to the information being provided over the span of several editions of Dungeons & Dragons or the overall peculiar nature of the location.
The Dire Wood, also known as the Enchanted Wood,
The Dire Wood was made of black, petrified trees that appeared to be dead, and began to reek of death and decay.
Wild magic permeated the woods, emanating from the arcane landmark within its center.
Strange weather patterns including "wizard weather" were reported throughout the Dire Wood. These phenomena included falling snow the color and smell of blood, rain as hot as boiling water, and hail that would explode when striking the earth.
The Dire Wood was situated in the eastern reaches of the High Forest, surrounding the source of the Heartblood River.
The space it occupied within changed depending on the observer. Anyone walking the circumfrence of the woods outside its border would continue for approximatley ,
The outer border of the woods that designated its change of dimensions were marked by a ring of massive albino oak trees known as the Pale Ring.
Cultists founded the city of Karse at this location after Karsuss Folly in , but it fell into ruin shortly thereafter due to internal religious strife. 
Around a thousand years later in the , a wizard from Ascalhorn named Wulgreth came to the ruins to raise an undead army using epic magic. His spell was interrupted however by his henchman, Jhingleshod the Axeman. The release of the necromantic energy caused Wulgreth to become a lich and the nearby forest was transformed into the Dire Wood.
For centuries after its formation, the Dire Wood continued to expand at a rate of approximately  each year. This growth stopped during the Time of Troubles in the , when magic across the Realms ceased functioning as expected.
Just prior to the Rage of Dragons in the , the gold dragon Aerosclughpalar retired to the Dire Wood to prepare for the madness that would inevitibly consume him. When he succummbed to the King-Killer Stars magical effects, he annihilated much of the petrified woods and the monstrosities that dwelled within.
Legend said that the Dire Wood was so named for a horrific massacre of humans many years before the age of ancient Netheril. It was said this mass-killing led to the red soil that covered the forest floor. Yet others believe it was the actions of Karsus that imbued the wood with its eldritch evil.
Stories of the Dire Woods peculiar nature spread as far away as Loudwater.
It was speculated by some sages that the woods could be a point from which travel to an alternate Prime Material plane was possible.
* Karse, the ruins of a former Netherese settlement.
* Karsus Butte, the remains of the fallen body of Karsus, made gigantic by the divine energy he stole, which lay in the exact center of the woods.
Due to its supernatural origins and nature, the Dire Wood was home to many aberrations, such as deepspawn,
The evil and strange goings-on of the forest were closely monitored by the elves of Reitheillaethor.
* Jhingleshod, the Iron Axeman and undead hunter of the lich Wulgreth of Ascalhorn.
* Lossarwyn, a lich and druid of the Twisted Rune that remained trapped in the woods, and was to blame by many for the woods "wizard weather". 
* Tianna Skyflower, "princess" of and leader of the band of elves that descended from ancient Eaerlann.