The Catacombs were a district of the dragonborn city of Djerad Thymar.
The lowest level of the city, the Catacombs were located in a tunnel network under the granite foundation of the city. The djerad fell above the ruins in wake of the Spellplague, and the dragonborn remodeled the tunnels to suit their needs when they constructed Djerad Thymar.
The most transited sections of the tunnel network had various chambers and rooms that served as a storage area for military equipment and siege supplies, or to fulfill many other mundane purposes as well. The dragonborn also used a section of the network to serve as the graveyard of the city. The lowest section of the tunnel had a chamber that served as the tomb of a bearded warrior of Toril but claimed as clan-kind of all dragonborn, whose tomb had existed in the original Untheric ruins who stood in the area before the construction of Djerad Thymar.
Not all the tunnels under Djerad Thymar were used for those functions, however. In the desolate sections of the tunnel network, the poor, as well as outcasts and criminals, had their homes and lairs. Those sections of the network were ill-reputed due to rumors of illegal activity or undead haunting them, and werent patrolled by thymari authorities. 
Like the Market Floor and the City Bastion, the Catacombss walls were embedded with magical glowing balls that provided sources of illumination. However, the abandoned sections of the Catacombs were left in disrepair and most of the magical lights had faded out, either because of time and neglect or because someone had extinguish them.
 Gem Assayers Union headquarters  The little known guild had its main headquarters in the Catacombs of Djerad Thymar.
 Platinum Cadre headquarters  The Platinum Cadre had their headquarters in one of the abandoned sections of the Catacombs.
CategoryWards
CategoryLocations in Djerad Thymar
CategoryLocations in Tymanther
CategoryLocations in East Faerûn
CategoryLocations in Faerûn
CategoryLocations on Toril
CategoryLocations
5l4p2tumhyhdgf981na18qnq7swg7k8