Drawn Swords was an isolated village found in the Backlands of the Western Heartlands. The settlement was named for the vigilance and mind for defense that was demanded of all of its residents, thanks to the assaults it suffered on regular basis.
The village sat atop a single rocky hill that overlooked the surrounding landscape. Rows of cottages were built in rings along the sides of the hill ascended upward towards a small copse of trees that surrounded the tower of Swordskeep.
Drawn Swords was located east of the Reaching Woods, approximately equidistant between Hills Edge along the River Reaching to the south, and the Hill of Lost Souls to the north and northwest of Skull Gorge.
Between the village and Skull Gorge was a monument created by local mountain giants called Fallen Giant Tomb.
All manner of exotic goods came through Drawn Swords, which was surprisingly given its distance from any major trade roads or nearby settlements.
At least half the villagers of Drawn Swords were well-trained in archery, and used the towns elevated to aid in its defense. They hung quivers of arrows just inside the doors of many buildings, and trained in firing volleys together as they worked their way towards Swordskeep tower for greater advantage.
Throughout history a number of battles have been fought on the hill atop which Drawn Swords was built. It was constantly being attacked by outsiders,
As of the mid–14 century DR, worshipers of Sune would regularly make offerings to their goddess in town, accompanied by the Stag Warriors of the nearby Flame Grove.
It was rumored that the town was protected by the group known as the Harpers and that one of their members owned its resident Sword and Dragon inn. Stories tell that the Harpers took interest in Drawn Swords and constructed the inn within Swordskeep tower to hide and protect a portal that linked it with the city of Berdusk.
* Swordskeep, a ruined tower that provided protection to the towns residents.
* Sword and Dragon, a pleasant-enough establishment that was always packed with adventurers and owned by some mysterious Berduskan business owner.
Despite its small size and relative isolation, Drawn Swords was the meeting place for several adventuring parties, notable among them Saerns Sharp Swords.