The Druids Deep was a hidden refuge in the Kings Forest of Cormyr, used by the druids of Thorngap. It was briefly taken over by the druid Halsaime in the 1480s DR.
The Druids Deep was an extension of Thorngap, and was hidden by the surrounding rocky terrain and the thick canopy of the Kings Forest. At the heart of the Deep was an ancient circle of huge standing stones.
The Deep was only accessible by swimming through a long underground tunnel that was flooded by water, which alone would dissuade most intruders. Additionally, some deeper caves connected directly to the Underdark.
After taking over Thorngap and the Deep, Halsaime assembled a force of corrupted druids, rangers, dryads, wisps, vine horrors, wood woads, bears, and wolves. Among them were the ranger Kuldail Ukien and the druid Juhni.
Around this time, the bog hag Aghilde made her home in a corner of the Druids Deep that contained a murky bog. Additionally, a group of drow males emerged in the caves beneath Druids Deep, seeking an escape from the oppressive Lolthite matriarchy and the opportunity to terrorize the surface on their own terms. They carried with them a suit of firebreak armor, which was likely taken from them by force after running into surfacer adventurers.
During the Sschindylryn invasion of Eveningstar, the druid Halsaime received a powerful cursed staff from his friend Oriphaun Huntsilver. Oriphaun had taken it from a Shadovar agent he killed while protecting the Abyssal Planus Mechanus Nether Scroll, and correctly identified that it was a dangerous artifact best handled by the wise. Unfortunately, Halsaime was overcome by a furious madness and used the staffs power to twist nature and his fellow foresters into a force to conquer the world with.
The Harpers Kirinel Zay, Tarim Inavule, and Jussko Kwahn investigated the situation after the ranger Peron Uthe returned from Thorngap carrying the red musk disease. After finding Carm Woodrusk at Halsaimes former home of Thorn Hollow, they narrowed in on the Druids Deep where Halsaime was hiding. The agents fought past the defenses and finally cornered the druid, who had already temporarily petrified Jussko. After a fierce battle, the cursed druid was slain and the staff finally destroyed.