Eaerlann was a powerful elven kingdom in the Delimbiyr Vale and a portion of the eastern High Forest in northwest Faerûn.
It was founded by Sharrven nobles in  and lasted for around six thousand years. Together with Sharrven, it suppressed the spread of evil in Siluvanede and maintained the peace. Their land was bound by the eastern part of the High Forest from Turnstone Pass in the north to the Shining Falls in the south.
In , Eaerlanni elves began to teach their magic to the humans of Netheril, which birthed their obsession with arcane magic.
In the , the combination of the demonic invasion that spilled forth from Ascalhorn, the continued assault of the orc hordes, and the weakening of the kingdom by elves retreating to Evermeet resulted in the kingdoms collapse.
After the collapse, some of the elves of Eaerlann joined with dwarves and humans to form the Fallen Kingdom.
By the mid–14 century DR, all that remained of the kingdom of Eaerlann was a crumbling old road and a ruined port.
The Council of the Wood, or Caerilcarn, was a group of wood elf elders and moon elf nobles who shared a common dream of raising a new Eaerlann, a dream that was slowly coming to fruition in 1370s DR. Through the groups efforts, the settlement of Tall Trees (the ancient site of the kingdoms capital) was built and the new settlements of Reitheillaethor and Nordahaeril were founded. The Caerilcarn also cooperated with the army of Evermeet during the feyri invasion lead by Sarya Dlardrageth, successfully massing an army of wood elves at the Lost Peaks and breaking Saryas pursuing orcish forces. The Caerilcarn was headed by Morgwais, the Lady of the Wood, and was led by its spokesman Yrind Morninglight.
The Eaerlanni elves made their homes by hollowing out selected trees and connecting them with lavish yet conventional rope bridges and platforms, striving to live with their surroundings instead of atop them. Because of this, many of their settlements did not withstand the passage of time, though some traces remained. In each of Eaerlanns settlements was at least one tree-building dedicated to the Seldarine.