Eldrinpar, also known as the Doegan Capital, was the capital city of the realm of Doegan, one of the Five Kingdoms of the Utter East in southeast Faerûn.This article assumes that the "Doegan Capital" appearing in Blood & Magic is the Eldrinparr mentioned in Realms of Mystery "Darkly, Through a Glass of Ale" and the Eldrinpar appearing in Conspiracy.
The land around the Doegan Capital was open and clear, with pleasant green fields and palm trees, but harsh times saw it become dry and rocky, or as rippled brown earth like dried mud with patches of broken, rougher land. Marshes lay in the northwest.
A section of the Doegan Capital.
In the lands around the capital, there were farms with rows of green plants and a canal that led into the city to supply its wells and fountain, which stood beside a park. which depicted a big, trident-wielding, man battling an octopus rising from the water, both made out of bronze and marble The fountains wide basin often attracted travelers entering the city, luring them  with its refreshing clean saltwater.
The citys class system forced many of the Mar to settle outside of the city walls. Over time, this created a sprawling field of small humble houses that belonged to poor servants, farmers, and beggars. The city had a system of sewer tunnels that ran through rich and poor areas of the city. The tunnels were easily accessible through grated vertical shafts that could be found in many of Eldrinpars courtyards. Many Mar who wished to stay out of Ffolks sight commonly used the foul-smelling runnels to traverse the city unnoticed.
A rounded, blue- or brown-domed keep stood on the outskirts, with its doors flanked by crouching beasts. Northwest of the city was a graveyard, with headstones of greenish stone and crypts. Beside it, in the north, was an array of six statues.
The Mage-Kings palace was a grand structure. Its lower chambers were carved by the ocean tides. Many of the palaces chambers were decorated with oceans bounty, carved coral beds, furniture out of polished driftwood, ocean  sponge pillows, and even linens and blankets were weaved out of sea vegetation and kelp.
Eldrinpar had several temples erected in the city. Living areas closest to them often were occupied by the Ffolk, while furter one traveled from the places of worship, the more Mar residences one encountered. Most, if not all temples in the Utter East were built in the pyramidal shape. These temples belonged to the Church of Umberlee, Church of Chauntea, Church of Tempus, and Church of Waukeen. Four out of five churches that participated in the settlement of the Five Kingdoms.
Eldrinpars docks stood just off a sizable plaza. Fishing boats were the most common vessels roped to the harbours. The Temple of Umberlee rose high out of the shimmering waters of the Great Sea, around fifty yards off the dock district. The structure was a pyramid of black basalt that resembled a brooding spider, connected to the harbors via a thin causeway.
In the 14 century DR, Eldrinpars city walls grew and were enhanced with battlements to defend against the growing monster attacks.
Most people who lived inside the city walls were fair-skinned and tall in contrast with the Mar who lived outside Eldrinpars walls. The Ffolk customarily dressed in bright flowing clothes. Unlike the Mar, they faces of Ffolk were oftten adorned with smiles and their posture radiated confidence.
Rathgar the Raider and Grubkern view the aftermath of battle with undead.
The history of the Doegan Capital was often that of Doegan itself. During the time of the Bloodforge Wars (648–657 DR),The events of Blood & Magic are only dated to "before the Time of Troubles" (1358 DR) in game. It is assumed these are a part of the Bloodforge Wars described in Faces of Deception and dated in The Grand History of the Realms. invaders led by Rathgar the Raider overran Doegan and laid siege to the capital. Rathgar plundered the realm of its bounty and finally seized for the crown itself. After some months, the Howl of Vengeance conflict—waged by Aelric the Avenger in an attempt to restore the former monarchy—saw fighting in the fields, streets, and graveyard of the Doegan Capital itself, as Aelrics undead bloodforged forces sought to oust Rathgar from his keep.
A wartorn and devastated Doegan.
The Doegan Capital suffered at least three more battles during the Bloodforge Wars, as the leader of the Legendary Campaign, which sought to unify the wartorn Utter East through conquest, came to Doegan to depose the derelict Patric Fulgirth and later the untrustworthy usurper Gim Blacktongue. Even the competent and steady Hariah Highkin, who had made the Doegan Capital a model of a prosperous city, was overthrown.
In the , Eldrinpar was sacked by a horde of monsters after Emperor Aetheric III abducted Eidola Boareskyr, the bride-to-be of Waterdeeps Open Lord in an attempt to summon a foreign army to defeat the demons that plagued Doegan due to use of the bloodforge. The mad mutated emperor, Aetheric III, was almost assassinated by Artemis Entreri, then finished off by the band of paladins sent by Waterdeep. Chancellor Ikavi Garkim became the new ruler of Doegan and declared Mar and Ffolk to be full equals. By the end of the events, to ensure the bloodforge was used responsibly, Garkim shared the position of Emperor with the Chosen of Tyr, Ingrar Welven, and they cast the monsters out of the city.