Estagund was a kingdom that was one of three realms that composed the Shining Lands of southeast Faerûn. It extolled the virtues of commerce and trade among nearly all else, save perhaps for veneration of the Adama, the spiritual belief that was the dominant practice among its people. The kingdom was also home to the legendary Maquar, holy warriors that served at the direction of Estagunds rajah.
Estagund was situated along the western plains of the Shining Lands, along the northern shore of the Great Sea, southwest of Var.
Scholars from far off lands mistakenly included Estagund, along with Durpar and Ulgarth,  into the collective Beastlands, which arose from the fallen kingdom of Veldorn.
One notable feature of Estagund was the Curna Mountains, a range that extended along its northwestern edge into the realm of Var. They were home to a large population of goblinoids, most notably the Iron Eye tribe.
Monkey spiders were popular pets among the Estagundan people.
The people of Estagund enjoyed warm, pleasant weather.
Estagund was a hereditary monarchy, and the title of "rajah" was handed down across the centurys of the kingdoms history. The rajah was assisted in their rule by the Council of Chakas, a group of powerful mercantile houses that facilitated trade throughout not only Estagund, but the other realms of the Shining Lands. In practice, the rajah owed their power to the fact they retained the greatest wealth among their noble peers.
After the monster-tribes arose to power in the Beastlands during the 15 century DR, The monarchy also arranged an alliance with the rakshasa-ruled city of Tirumala, in the Beastlands, though the exact specifications were unknown.
As it was in neighboring Durpar and Var, trade and commerce were held in the highest regard by the Estagundan people. Trading consortiums known as chakas were run by individual leaders known as nawabs. Both the individuals and the groups they led held great influence and power within the kingdom, though not as much as the kingdoms ruler. Nearly every aspect of life considered to be a form of business transaction. In fact, the common class of Estagund could exert their influence over nobility by merely transferring over to a different province that better provided for their needs.
The people of Estagund had little care for adventurers. 
Throughout its history, Estagund shared its cultural origins and heritage with the neighboring realms of Durpar and Var.
To much of the population of Faerûn, Estagund and the Shining Lands were considered the end of the "civilized" world.
Adherence to and veneration of the Adama was the main shared philosophical view held by most people of Estagund, and the surrounding Shining Lands. This view held that the entirety of existence was connected under a single spark of creativity, known as the Adama, or The One.
Several deities of the Faerûnian pantheon were venerated in Estagund as their lesser-known divine aspects, each of which were considered as part of the Adama. Notable among them were Gond, as Zionil Oghma, as Curna Selûne, as Lucha or "She Who Guides".
Dried apricots and caked quince sticks were popular treats among the Estagundan people.
Like other realms in the Shining Lands, trade and commerce were prominent aspects of Estagunds society.
Estagund was defended by the Maquar, an order of elite warriors that originally acted to further Estagundan trade interests. These dedicated protectors followed a strict code of honor and solely dedicated themselves to safeguarding Estagund and its people.
Over two dozen centuries before Dale Reckoning, the tribes that lived in what would later be known as Estagund (along with Var), formed a portion of Gundavar, a provincial state of the Imaskari Empire. When the empire fell in , Gundavar fell into a collection of warring barbarian tribes. Some centuries later, the people of future Estagund would come under the reign of the First Untheric Empire.
It was not until the , that the tribal leaders of the realm led their people in open revolt against the ruling rajah. It was on that occasion that the Kingdom of Estagund was founded, separate from the survivor-state of Gundavar.
The fledgling kingdom suffered its first major threat in the , when Rajah Marak III attempted to invade Estagund to re-incorporate it into neighboring Gundavar. The people of Estagund were able to resist aggressions long enough, that seven years later, Rajah BHeshti II gave up all claim to the kingdom, and renamed his own realm as simply, Var.
In the , Estagunds seventh king, Thultim, died without leaving a heir. A civil war broke out over succession to the throne and it divided Estagund into many smaller city-states. 
In the , Estagund was conquered by Reinhar I and his arkaiuns, but three years later the Estagundans regained their independence when Reinhar was slain by the archmage Mycontil from Halruaa and they reunited under the rule of King Bonrial.Page 55 of The Shining South states that Estagund fell apart into city-states, whereas the newer sources such as The Grand History of the Realms states they united under King Bonrial.
During the 8 century DR, specifically in the , the military of Estagund engaged in a series of skirmishes with neighboring Var over control of to natural springs and wells. Lord Derendri of Estagund built a fortified tower to extort a fee from the Varran people. A young hero from the neighboring nation, Estelarra Rilpar the "Flame of Var", rallied warriors from her land and eventually brought down the tower of the Estagundan lord.
Some two hundred years later, in the , Estagund invaded Dambrath, but were defeated. Not only did they fail to conquer their neighbor, but the vengeful crinti attacked Estagund in retaliation, slaying most of the working age men throughout the country. Famine soon struck all of Estagund. Durpar jumped on the opportunity to pacify their violent neighbors and in the , sent an emissary to negotiate terms with King Hedgita and the nobles of Estagund. After days of negotiating, Durpar purchased the country of Estagund for twenty-four gems. In return, they offered their full protection and taught them the way of Durpari life. A century later, Estagund was fully enveloped into the Shining Lands.
During the following century, in the , Estagund allied with neighboring Durpar and Var to defeat a hive of beholders that overtook the cities of Vaelantar and Assur. The following year, they rallied together again to drive out an army of demons that arose from the coastal city of Ormpé.
Estagund allied with Durpar yet again, in the , in an allied push to clear the realm of Veldorn from monstrous creatures. Advisors to the kingdoms rulers had been urging the initiation of a "cleansing march" They marched into the realm for a mere three days, before their forces were turned away. The accounts of this conflict were included in The March Into Monsters by Relldeveir Mraztar.
As of the the mid-1370s, individuals from the eastern empire of Shou Lung were working intrigues to establish an enclave—a Shou Town—in Chavyondat in Estagund.
Estagund was largely spared for destruction when the Spellplague struck Toril in the .
In the late 15 century DR, the Talosan cultist Ularan Mortus led a dreadnaught vessel imbued with the soul of a Anaurian death knight from Estagund far west to the Sea of Swords.
As of the , it was suspected among many the rajah of Estagund was supplanted by some unknown figure, or at the very least fell under sway of some malign magical force.
* Chavyondat, the kingdoms capital situated on the Bay of Kings housed the Seltrarir Palace, House of Chakas, and the House of the Vanquisher, where the Maquar were trained for service to the rajah. 
* Thruldar, a once-thriving trade city that fell to ruin and was ruled over by the ghost of the powerful druid Voolad.
As of the late 15 century DR, monstrous creatures from the neighboring Beastlands, roamed south into the northern reaches of Estagund.
* Vizier Devang, a rakshasa who masqueraded as one of Rajah Seltrarirs most-trusted advisors.
* Indamu Podo, the leader of the Maquar circa 1373 DR.
* Ronatsinaderin, the ancient green dragon.