The Fallen Giant Tomb was a  tall statue of a mountain giant carved out of a stone ridge in the Western Heartlands.
This landmark was situated roughly between the Drawn Swords and Skull Gorge.
At some point centuries prior to 1366 DR, a great mountain giant chieftain died whose name has been lost to the annals of time. Grieving, his followers carved a semblance of his sleeping form out of a stone ridge. 
According to detailed stories later told by dwarves, elves, and giants &mdash those mountain giants buried their chiefs body beneath the stone ridge. They laid him to rest in a suit of everbright steel plate mail, atop a bed of stacked golden ingots, with his magical warhammer by his side. There was estimated to be at least two thousand or more of those golden ingots and they were said to be so large that each was worth a hundred gold pieces.
Over time the entrance to his tomb became totally obscured, yet still many attempted expeditions to uncover it.
Centuries after its construction, people found that if any blood was spilled upon either the statue or the slopes of its ridge &mdash even if it was from uncooked meat or a pre-existing wound &mdash then four or more skeletons of mountain giants would arise. They would be armed with spiked clubs and seek to slay any living creature that did not flee from the ridge immediately. They would also arise whenever anyone dug on the ridge. There was seemingly no limit to the amount of skeletons that could erupt from the ground &mdash around 1366 DR, one elderly ranger claimed to Volothamp Geddarm that over the years he had slain over thirty skeletons from that ridge.
By 1366 DR, a group of three war parties had allegedly managed to find his tomb and stole the chiefs magical warhammer, but were unable to steal any of his gold due to being driven off by the tombs undead guardians.
Some legends claimed that on certain nights this statue would rise up and slay anyone nearby, though adventurers who had camped by the tomb discredit this tale.