The Forlorn Cliffs was a once well-traveled Middledark portal nexus that connected various parts of Underdark.
The Forlorn Cliffs were located in a group of massive caverns and allowed the travelers to traverse them via many winding cliff pathways illuminated by luminescent fungi and enchanted brazers of continual faerie fire leftover from the region glory days. The bottom of the deep caverns was littered with sharp rock formations and giant Underdark mushrooms. The pathways intertwined and intercepted and occasionally led to bigger naturally-formed rock platforms. The entire area was littered with portals and gates that were used in the past to quicken the underground travel. In late 15 century DR, many of the portals were corrupted, destroyed, or forgotten. Cave moss grew in this region in abundance.
thumb|A map depicting the location of the Forlorn Cliffs.
One of the many portals of the Forlorn Cliffs led to the ancient Rhylfangs Lair in the Evermoors.
Another portal of note was hidden behind a complex rune-lock and eventually led to Gracklstugh.
*Abandoned dig site - the long-abandoned area that was used by Torga Burduum and her dwarven smiths to excavate the massive ancient vault doors to Izzaxus Kiln.
*Izzaxus Kiln - the ancient drow summoning chambers, home of many horrors, and the creature bound to the Kiln, Izzaxu itself.
Since the region abandoned by most travelers, the area became infested with the dangerous wildlife of the Underdark and circa 1490 DR, drow Cult of Belaphoss and their summoned fiends resided in the Forlorn Cliffs. The monsters in the area included gelatinous cubes, umber hulks, and hook horrors. Straggling duergars and derro could be found in the area as well as the cults quasits, hezrou, dretches, and succubi.
An insane derro Izhkin, a companion of the Champion of the Burning Dawn, made home in the abandoned camp of Tezzarae in the Cliffs circa 1490 DR.
An imp named Gliuxni made home in the Forlorn Cliffs circa 1490 DR, as well as a cursed refugee Perren.
The ghosts of Torga Burduum and her dwarven comrades were bound to the Kiln located deep in the Forlorn Cliffs. The same caves were homes to summoned hezrou, quasits, dretches, and blazing skeletons, as well as the local wildlife that found a way into the Kiln - umber hulks, and hook horrors. Izzaxus Kiln was home to Izzaxu until circa 1490 DR.