Fort Arran, sometimes referred to by its old name Arranford, was a small town, turned outpost that stood on the Golden Road between Sespech and the the capital of Chondath – Arrabar.
Arranford stood at the mouth of River Arran, near where the northwest edge of Chondalwood reached towards the river. The fort stood by the bridge across the river that was part of the Golden Road. The city of Arrabar laid further north and Ormpetarr – south.
Circa the , Fort Arran was placed in the hands of General Marcius Stonehall, an old experienced godly dwarf. Marcius was a member of Baron Foesmashers adventuring troupe, along with the Lord-Mayor Gavilon Jostins of Elbulder during the days of their youth.
Fort Arran had little trade, but it attracted attention during the annual celebration of Chondath using power in the wake of the Rotting War. The Rotting Dance festival was gleefully celebrated in the outpost, often joined by Baron Foesmasher himself.
The forts garrison counted a thousand loyal Sespechan soldiers who were ready to fall in defense of their free nation. Every soldier knew that Fort Arrans duty was not to win a potential conflict but rather to delay an invading force. The General regularly hired trusted adventuring companies to travel to Arrabar and keep an eye on any troop or war supplies being deployed.
thumb|A map depicting the pre-Fort Arran town of Arranford in the mid-14 century 290x290px
Long before Arranford stood at the mouth of River Arran, the lands that stretched between the river and Nagawater were a nation of Maurmurra. It was dissolved with the death of its leader in the .
Prior to the , Fort Arran was a small town along the Golden Road called Arranford. Briefly, the town became a battle site following Baron Thuragar Foesmashers rise to power. The new ruler ordered his predecessor Ricjolo Tomrase to return to his puppeteers in Arrabar. In retaliation, Chondath sent a "peace-keeping" army to Ormpetarr. The new Baron, of course, was ready for the show of force and stationed a force in the town of Arranford that stood between two cities. As the short battle ended with Foesmashers triumph. It resulted in Sespechs true independence and prosperity in the following years. To place a buffer in case of future aggression, Arranford became Fort Arran. The outpost that held an army of almost 1,000 souls to the chagrin of the Lord of Arrabar.
As of the , Fort Arran remained a warning station in case of wars erupting in the tumultuous region of the Vilhon Reach. As such, messengers were always at the ready to be dispatched to Mimph, Elbulder, and Ormpetarr with a warning for the rest of the free nation. Those stationed at the outpost considered the service to be a great honor.