stone giants
Frozen Flindyke was a collection of near-ruins in the Tortured Land, located where a great bridge called Marams Span (the only bridge in the region) crossed the River Pelauvir.
The city was mostly built on the northern side of the River Pelauvir, which ran through an icy canyon below. Reportedly, everything in the local environment was eternally encased in a thin layer of ice.
thumb|right|300px|Map of Frozen Flindyke (left) and the surrounding terrain
The city was known to be supplied with ore from Mount Ghaethlauntar via gnoll sledge caravans using the Remorhaz Run highway. The Way of the Powrie road ran south from the bridge to the village of Ilinvur.
The ancient stone giant citadel of Moch-Fanan, built during the ancient Dawn Age, was still standing as of the late 15 century DR.
According to the Sage Archembald of Yûlash, for uncounted millennia stone giants guarded the bridge over the Pelauvir from their "mighty citadel of rune-etched iron" called Moch-Fanan, as the river marked the southern borders of their ancient kingdoms.
During the final days of the Dawn Age, the giants abandoned their citadel and retreated into the Abbey Mountains to the south. Some time later, gnolls and flinds discovered the citadel and claimed the surrounding region as their own, building up their own rude settlement near the giant-sized keep. The community eventually became known to the outside world as Frozen Flindyke, the fabled city of beast men at the heart of the Tortured Land.
In the , gnoll warriors from Frozen Flindyke participated in a great coalition of peoples from across north Faerun to imprison the primordial Maram of the Great Spear. The coalition was successful in banishing Maram, though very few of the coalition participants survived both the conflict and the subsequent withdrawal.
As of the , the city was still inhabited by an uncounted number of gnolls and flinds, who were said to be merciless and clever when dealing with any visitors. All interlopers were attacked on sight.