Fugue, also called the Fugue Plane, was a tent city near the Vaasan Gate. In the mid-to-late 14 century DR, it was located on the Bloodstone Pass side of the Gate and was a temporary home to mercenaries and adventurers. In the late 15 century DR, it was located on the Vaasan side of the Gate and was home to refugees fleeing from the Warlock Knights. 
It was a place caught between the "hellish" dangers of Vaasa and the "heavenly" safety of Damara, hence it was named for the Fugue Plane.
In the mid-to-late 14 century DR, Fugue sat on a plane underneath the towering walls of the Galenas inside Bloodstone Pass. It was akin to a crowded campground for adventurers and mercenaries drawn to Vaasa by the promise of generous bounties placed on the regions monsters by Damaras king, Gareth Dragonsbane.
In the late 15 century DR, Fugue sat on the Vaasan side of the Gate. It was a sprawling ramshackle camp of desperate, poverty-stricken refugees. The conditions in the tent city were crowded and filthy, and death was a common occurrence.
The location of the tent city changed between the 14 and 15 centuries owing to the camp being formed by different groups for different purposes. In the mid-to-late 14 century DR, Fugue was located around the base of the Vaasan Gate on southeastern side within Bloodstone Pass.
When the Vaasan Gate was constructed starting in the , it was intended to serve as a home base for adventurers and bounty hunters assisting in the pacification of Vaasas monster population. However, within a decade, the steady stream of mercenaries and fortune-seekers far exceeded the fortresss capacity, and so they began setting up camp on the small plain just behind the Gate inside Bloodstone Pass. These adventurers would be the ones to dub this camp "the Fugue Plane." and it is unclear if it was rebuilt afterward.
When the Warlock Knights seized Bloodstone Pass and sealed the Vaasan Gate in the , Vaasan refugees fleeing from the Knights war of conquest gathered nearby in hopes of being saved by Damara. By 1480 DR, no help had come and the population had swelled to approximately 2,000 desperate souls living in squalor.