Gatchorof was a secretive githyanki military outpost established in the ruins of Torglor in Deep Shanatar in the 14 century DR.
The settlement mostly consisted of existing dwarven buildings repurposed for their use by the githyanki, in particular guard towers and the original city jail. Other structures within a distance of  of the buildings in use were flattened to a maximum height of  to provide better visibility to the soldiers.
The encampment was a base from which the githyanki launched attacks on nearby Oryndoll, as well as any mind flayers and thralls in the Lowerdark.
Visitors were generally not welcome in Gatchorof, but exceptions were made for those whose express purpose was to slay mind flayers, or who professed a sufficiently burning hatred of the illithids. An informally accepted token of entry was the head of a deceased mind flayer.
Gatchorof was also known for having large domesticated crops of torchstalk.
As was typically the case with military settlements, Gatchorof had facilities that provided a few services on demand to serve the soldiers. There was a taphouse, a general store, a forge, and a slaver gang. Despite the fact that slavery was legal in the settlement, the githyanki soldiers tended not to have time for it.
The entire settlement was reinforced and built with defense in mind. All structures were characterized by their military adaptations to serve functional purposes, as well as the cleared structures in the surroundings, which provided ample line of sight to the towns defenders.
The settlement was established in the ruins of Torglors capital city several decades before .
On any typical day, roughly a quarter of the settlements population was not present. The remaining inhabitants were constantly busy with patrols, drills, or preparations for their upcoming raids. There was a small civilian portion of the population, tasked with support services to the military and to journey back and forth to the Astral Plane for supplies. While in the settlement, even the civilian population was constantly armed.
On top of the githyanki population, Gatchorof was also inhabited by three red dragons the sisters Cragnotherma, Heltipyre, and Scorlachash, all daughters of Hulrundrar. The arrangement between the githyanki and the dragons comprised periodic raids on trading caravans to add to their hordes in exchange for their cooperation.
By 1370, the githyanki were negotiating with the red wyrm Charvekannathor to mate with the three red dragon inhabitants of the settlement. By doing so, they planned to increase their red dragon population to support a future assault on Oryndoll. The negotiations unintentionally called the attention of the Twisted Rune.