The Ginger Palace was the trade embassy of the Shou Lung empire in the Eastern Heartlands of Faerûn.
The Ginger Palace boasted magnificent architecture, such as marble pathways and plastered walls that held glass windows lined with silver. The structures featured vibrant decorations made by the hands of highly-skill artisans, like wooden pillars with carvings of exotic beasts like basilisks, phoenixes, furry-tailed imp, and the heads of dragons.
Landmarks of the palace were vibrant and given extravagant names, such as the Path of Delight and the Arch of Many-Hued Scales, while buildings were given monikers related to spices, such as the Cinnamon House.
The Ginger Palace was located on the Dragon Coast, southeast of Elversult, just a short way south of the Snake Road. 
Due to the interests of the Ginger Palaces resident prince, several types of powerful reptiles could be found in the embassys park, including snakes and monitor lizards, including thornbacks.
The palace was headed by Imperial Minister of Spices Hsieh Han Liu. It was also the home to two Shou nobles sponsored by Minister Hsieh, Prince Kao Chou Tang and his wife Princess Wei Dao.
From within the palace Minister Hsieh oversaw Shou spice trade in the region. Every day, dozens of petitioners would gather at the inner courtyard of the palace hoping to gain audience with Prince Tang or Princess Wei Dao, sometimes waiting a matter of days. 
Without the ministers permission, Prince Tang was also using the embassy as a headquarters for black market poison trade in the region. 
Despite this bustle of activity, the embassy was considered a place of little importance to the Shou empire.
The embassy was well-defended by stalwart Shou soldiers armored with scale mail and helmets that resembled the shells of tortoises, wielding long halberds,
In the , Lady Feng was abducted from the palace by the black dracolich Hethcypressarvil, and taken back to the undead beasts lair.
A short time later, the palace was infiltrated by the novice Harpers agent Ruha, who sought out the whereabouts of Lady Yanseldara, leader of Elversult. She caused a great disruption in the palace, getting captured and inadvertently creating a rift between Prince Tang and Wei Dao.
The embassy was destroyed in 1373 DR, with the structures reduced to rubble.
* Garden of Flickering Tongues, a combination, park garden, and wildlife enclosure of several different biomes that housed a variety of exotic reptiles.
* Yu Po, scribe to Minister Hsieh.
* Yuan ti, one of the princes guardsmen.