Glim-Gardens was another beautiful park that held a grand mansion of the House Ammath in the glory days of Myth Drannor. Glim-Gardens laid immediately to the east from the Windrider Glade, and the parks enchantment healed and rejuvenated visitors bodies and souls.
Once grand mansion and its surrounding structures did not survive the Weeping War and by 1369 DR the areas nature and magic were twisted and harmful. The collapsed buildings that were located in the area were broken apart and taken away by many residents of the ruins over the centuries that followed.
The mansions ruins were nothing but the structures foundation, with its basement accessible not far from the fountain plaza. The basement led to the ancient family tomb that belonged to the House Ammath and had a passage to the Halls of Stone portion of the Dwarven Dungeons. Like other access points to the Myth Drannors undercity, this one was sealed with a glyph (of song) and a word of power (singing word).
A plot of an old magical garden corrupted into the vampiric Thirsty Ground in Glim-Gardens.
The magic that coursed through Glim-Gardens was twisted after Myth Drannors fall and the section of the park with the strongest enchantment came to be known as the Thirsty Ground or the Garden of Blood. The corrupted healing magic gave the Thirsty Ground an ability to talk to creatures passing by, offering them healing in exchange for their spilled blood. The Thirsty Ground called these services - rituals, namely the Blood Lesson (in exchange for restoration), the Blood Blessing (remove curse), and Fionas Kiss of Life (resurrection).
The plaza in the middle of the gardens was centered on a beautiful fountain, connected to the complex water-system of Myth Drannor. When the water pumps were active, a water guardian spirit naiad named Plinshree was often seen around the fountain.
Massive stone doors of the decorated entrance to another ancient tomb were located in the north-east - the Cold Knights Barrow (also known as the Tomb of Eternal Sleep). The tomb was the first structure in the area that became the Glim-Gardens that has been home to a powerful and extremely old wight.
A pathway at the Glim-Gardens southern border led to Sullymarsh and a stairway leading to a winding pathway led directly to the Windrider Glade. 
A patch of healing blueglow moss could be found near the ruined structure to the north of the gardens. Past the structure laid the path to the House of Gems.
The entrance to the Cold Knights Barrow.
Sometime before the Weeping War ravaged the city, a powerful and ancient wights presence inside a tomb in Glim-Gardens became known. The creature resided inside since before the city grew around the burial barrow. A paladin Eadred and his commander Hachaam Selorn ventured inside the tomb and destroyed the undead who placed a curse on Hachaam, trapping him in frozen stasis. When the War loomed over Myth Drannor, heroic Eadred decided to free Hachaam from the curse, taking his place in the stasis. 
At some point before 1369 DR, Jelde Asturien, one of the Knights of Myth Drannor found his way into the ancient tomb of Glim-Gardens and created a vault in one of its secret rooms. The vault contained Jeldes blade of destruction and a set of arcane mail.
In 1369 DR, Eadred was freed from his curse when one of the heroes from Phlan took the paladins spot in the stasis in exchange for his aid against the Cult of the Dragon.
This twisted and wild area served as a home to vengeful undead (skeletons, ghasts, and ghouls) and numerous gargoyles and margoyles.
In the past, a powerful wight was locked inside an ancient tomb in the Gardens. And after the creatures defeat, a paladin Eadred was trapped by a curse inside since the days of the Weeping War.