The Gray Harbor of Baldurs Gate was one of the largest and busiest ports located on the western coast of Faerûn. It spanned all six districts of the Gates Lower City, forming a crescent along bottom of the citys distinct sloping bluffs. 
Although this was the name of the harbor, it was previously bestowed upon the entirety of the settlement itself, before it was changed to "Baldurs Gate".
Along the city, its harbor was inset within a natural bay that formed along the northern shore of the River Chionthar, about 40 miles (64.4 kilometers) upstream from the Sea of Swords.
thumb|The Gray Harbor in a gloomy night.
Massive in size and scope, the harbor featured over a dozen piers and an astounding seventy-six mechanical cranes that were used to load and unload cargoes onto and from ships. Operated by the guild-sponsored deckhands, these enormous devices were originally designed by the Baldurian clergy of Gond from the High House of Wonders.
Extending out from the Seatower of Balduran, there was a massive chain that, under normal circumstances, rested along the riverbed, before being tethered to a post in the eastern-most dock of Brampton. When necessary, a rotating capstan could be manned and the chain would raise taut, allowing no ships larger than a dinghy to pass into the port.
The Gray Harbor was bustling with activity at all hours, day and night, but especially busy in the hours before dawn.
Due to the citys receptive nature and business-first mentality, a great variety of cargo passed through the docks of  Gray Harbor. Even pirates and smugglers could find a home for their ship, even if only for a short while.
Landmarks
* Counting House One of the centers of trade and mercantilism within the city at large.
* Harbormasters office Somewhat resembling a fortress, this squat building secured all the shop manifests and fees that were paid to the city for fees related to sea-trade or docking.
* Seatower of Balduran The naval keep of the Flaming Fist was a symbol of their might and authority over the harbor.
Temples
* Water Queens House This indispensable church of Umberlee was located at the end of a long, broad pier in the Steeps.