The Gulthmere Forest, known for a time as the nation of Gulthandor, marked the boundary between the Dragon Coast and the Vilhon Reach in central Faerûn. It was an overgrown forest of pine and cedar that was sacred to the god Nobanion and his followers. To those within the Reach, it was known as the "seat of power" for the lands druids.
It was an untamed, subtropical expanse of woodland predominantly made up of cedar and pine trees. The terrain of the forest was hill country,
The forest housed several portals, including one that was connected to the lost city of Ilimar, the underground city of Fluvenilstra, and another linked to Nobanions divine realm in the House of Nature.
The forest was located along the eastern stretch of the coast along the southwestern waters of the Sea of Fallen Stars. leading up to the Mountains of the Alaoreum and the Orsraun Mountains in the south. 
Just north of the forest were the ruins of the small coast city of Starmantle.
The Cedar River flowed north through the Gulthmere Forest, dividing the city of Cedarspoke in two. It was fed by its northern and southern arms, that flowed down from the Orbrekh and Orsraun Mountains respectively.
Located within the forest south of Starmantle was the Lightless Lake, also known as the Moonmere. It was home to a tribe of bullywugs who believed the lake to be holy to Ramenos.
The hilly terrain of the forest included at least two dormant volcanoes.
For hundreds of years beginning in the 3 century DR, the Gulthmere Forest along with the Chondalwood were watched over a band of druids, led by one the five Grand Druids of the Realms. Their order defended the the forest realm from the expansion of neighboring nations, and eventually formed the expansive druidic organization known as the Emerald Enclave.
Some time during the 15 century DR, the forest of Gulthmere transformed into the nation of Gulthandor. This forest realm was still governed by the druidic leaders of the region, headquartered in Cedarspoke.
The faith of Nobanion was perhaps the strongest in all of the Gulthmere forest
The great city of Cedarspoke was founded in the forest around the beginning of the 3 century DR.
When the druids of Silvanus in the forest united to form the Emerald Enclave in the , in order to strike out against the encroachment of the wizards of Turmish known as the Windlass. They led precision assaults against the Turmish logging camps and drew them into a great battle at Cedarspoke, from which they emerged victorious.
During the Time of Troubles, in the , the forest was the location of a great battle between Nobanion and the god Malar. With the help of his druid allies, Nobanion kept Malar from entering the Reach, and the Beastlord was forced to turn north.
In the , the Fellowship of the Purple Staff established themselves within the forest, and by 1372 DR, had founded three small hamlets in its northeastern region. Although they were originally resisted by the Nobanionites, who mistook their actions for wanton slaughter of wildlife, the two groups formed a steady alliance. With the help of the Fellowship, the inhabitants of these settlements built roads to trade with nearby Amry and Telpir as well the subterranean dwarven miners. 
When the Fane of Shadows came to Toril on the Prime Material plane, it first appeared in the Lightless Lake within the forest.
* Cedarsproke A small city, in the heart of the forest, that served as a druidic stronghold. Despite their presence in the area, the city was not a settlement of the Emerald Enclave.
* Gurnth This village, located in the forests depths, was home to a cult of Nobanion-worshipers.
* Monastery of Oghma A small holy building that was destroyed in the 14 century DR.
As was the case with other untamed forested regions of the Realms, Gulthmere was home to a great many fey creatures. Green dragons were known to dwell in the forest, as was at least one rookery of kir-lanans.