Harvestshield Mountain was a mountain located not far from Waterdeep atop which stood the Chaunteas Citadel.
The mountain stood above a fertile plain. It was centrally located such that any army that held the mountain would be well-positioned to reach almost any member of the Lords Alliance.
There was a forest on the south side which afforded the safest path up to the Citadel. However, as of the late 15 century DR, parts of this forest were tainted by sulfuric runoff originating from the lair of the red dragon Argathakul that sat at the mountains summit. Only undead, such as ghouls, could live in these areas.
The mountain, and Chaunteas Citadel atop it, once protected a fertile plain that was a bountiful agricultural center for many generations, and it was this role that earned it the name "Harvestshield". During this time, the region was home to wizards and nobles as well as farmers. The wizards worked to create golems&mdashsuch as the Harvestshield Reapers&mdashto defend the mountain and the fields, while the nobles placed little value on combat and instead focused on banquets. This era gave rise to local legends, such as the unsuccessful rebel Bellorath and the foolish duo of Elcharn and Cielaro.
This all ended when the entire region was decimated by Argathakul at some point between the late 8 and early 15 centuries DR.Warriors of Waterdeep is set in the late 15 century DR during Laeral Silverhands tenure as Open Lord of Waterdeep, and Laeral states that "Few are still alive who remember how cruelly Argathakul despoiled Harvestshield Mountain, but I do." Laeral was born in , giving the stated range from the late 8 to early 15 century DR. Laeral subsequently describes Argathakul as "young for a dragon", which might suggest a more recent date within this range. The dragon then claimed the mountains summit as his lair.
In the late 15 century DR, the hobgoblin warlord Mrolgyet and his Legion claimed Chaunteas Citadel as their base of operation. From there, they proceeded to recruit or subdue local tribes in order to amass an army with which to wage war on the Lords Alliance.
Just as the Legion began to march its invasion force down the mountain, Laeral Silverhand sent a group of adventurers alongside an army to counter them. The adventurers managed to sneak up on the enemy while the armies held the line, and ultimately the Legion was driven back to the Citadel. That was when Argathakul reappeared to assert his claim over the mountain, but the dragon was beaten back by the adventurers.
The mountain was a habitat for owlbears and chimeras. Gangs of trolls and tribes of ettins were also known to live on or near the mountain. With the arrival of Mrolgyets Legion, the mountain became home to goblinoids, giantkin, and gnolls.