High Pasture was a set of ruins near the village of Volkumburgh.
By the 14 century DR these ruins had fallen into such a state of disrepair that it was difficult to ascertain what it once was. It could have been either a barn or some workshop.
These ruins were located in the Volkumburgh Vale, northeast of the village of the same name and the residents of its inhabitants Clemon and Wistkins.
This area became a ruin in the mid-12 century DR, when the devil-possessed stone golem known as Awtawmatawn rampaged throughout Volkumburgh Vale.An exact date for these past events are never given in the The Shattered Statue, but The Grand History of the Realms dates King Prosters reign as lasting from 1122 DR – 1164 DR.
In 1358 DR,The explanation for this date is divided into three points(1) Page 16 of The Shattered Statue (February, 1988) describes the destruction of Phlan by dragons as having occurred "several years ago." Since the conflict "Dragon Run" did not exist until The Moonsea, this has to be referring to the Flight of the Dragon (1356 DR), which was introduced in the Forgotten Realms Campaign Set.(2) The Savage Frontier (August, 1988), is set in 1358 DR and has Amelior Amanitas refer to its events in past tense.(3) Page 18 of The Shattered Statue describes the Cult of the Dragon as having long had no presence in Volkumburgh Vale, but TSR Jam 1999 has the cult re-establishing themselves there in 1359 DR.Conclusion All together, this info suggests that The Shattered Statue takes place in 1358 DR. in the month of Uktar some time prior to the Feast of the Moon, the Volkumburgh shepherd Deker was clearing out these ruins in hopes of constructing a new barn. While doing so one of his sheep walked up to and bit a runestick that made it seemingly disappear. Later on a group of adventurers seeking out the scattered remains of the Awtawmatawn on behalf of Amelior Amanitas came to enquire about this incident and found that the runestick acted as a two-way portal to another runestick near the ruins of the College of Rune Magics.