Hillmarch was a small mining town in northern Cormyr famed for its production of high-quality brasswork.
Hillmarch was located east of Castle Crag along the Dragon Trail, in the southern foothills of the Gnoll Peaks. It was a days travel north from the East Way.
Hillmarch was notable only for its mining and metalworking production. Rich lodes of copper were mined in the Gnoll Peaks, along with smaller deposits of silver, zinc, and nickel. The ore was smelted locally, and used for the famous brasscasting industry that dominated the town. In addition to a small local farmers market, most of the town was made up of boarding houses, company barracks, warehouses, smelters, and workshops. Huge heaps of slag and other industrial leavings lay everywhere, and an ever-present stink filled the air. The result of all this was a grand production of high-quality brasswork, including lamps, candelabras, thuribles, ornamentations, and a vast array of other small and useful items. The scale of Hillmarchs industry gave rise to the Cormyrean saying "Yeve as much brass as all Hillmarch."
The towns mines ran north into the Gnoll Peaks, with little danger or incident besides rumors of executioners hoods attacking miners. The most interesting discovery was that of an underground river that was suspected of flowing down into the Underdark.
The mining companies that ran the town had colorful names such as "High Pick Delvings" and "Motherlode Ores", but were actually all owned by large costers based in Cormyrs major cities.
The town had a small Purple Dragons garrison and a tiny keep to protect the town and its wealth from brigands. Despite their best efforts and the assistance of War Wizards, the Dragons struggled to handle the massive drunken brawls that regularly erupted as the towns population of miners drank themselves into a collective rage.
* Hillmarch had 7 or 8 taverns, but only one inn, the Shovel of Sparkling Stones.
* The Grave Hills were a large burial ground south of Hillmarch, and a testament to the short lifespan of the miners.