Hillsfar was a powerful city-state located on the southern coast of the Moonsea. The city was heavily involved in trade in the region, acting as a hub for cities and settlements in the surrounding area. A person from Hillsfar was known as a Hillfarian.
In the late 14th century DR, the city of Hillsfar was ruled by the iron fist of the wizard Maalthiir and there were two standing "great laws"
* Great Law of Trade Do not interfere with any legitimate trade
* Great Law of Humanity Only humans are allowed within Hillsfar.
By the late 15th century DR, the city was ruled by a senate of thirty-one wealthy merchants and guildmasters. However, since the senate could rarely agree on anything, actual rule of the city fell to the First Lord Torin Nomerthal.
thumb|right|A Red Plume of Hillsfar.
Although Hillsfar was a walled city, fortified with a steel gate, it was the military force of the Red Plumes who ensured the citys security from foreign forces in the 14th century DR. Although they technically operated autonomously, they were in fact another extension of Maalthiirs reach.
In the 15th century DR, the military was known as the Tower Guard and was supplemented by a powerful mages guild.
Although trade in the Moonsea was typically carried out through rivalries and competition, almost all the goods of the region passed through Hillsfar in the hands of middlemen and intermediary merchants. The city was once a port where stolen and illicit goods were traded (despite Hillsfar having a law that stated piracy was punishable by hanging), but this was no longer the case by 1359 DR. Hillsfar was a known exporter of velvet.
thumb|Mid-to-late 14 century Hillsfar.
The settlement was founded in the  by elves, half-elves, and humans on the western edge of Tailings Bay. It was originally named Hillsafar after a dwarven clan, but within a few decades, the name was simplified to Hillsfar. The city was founded for three reasons to trade with the dwarven settlers who had emigrated out of Myth Drannor the previous year to the Scarp at Tailings Bay to keep drow out of the region and to maintain a watch over Moanders Crypt. The city was ruled over by council of men and half-elves, as well as representatives of the Elven Court, giving the Elven Court a measure of control over Hillsfar.
In the , Hillsfar fought and defeated Mulmaster in the Moonsea War alongside Melvaunt, Phlan, Sembia and Zhentil Keep.
In Kythorn of the , during the Flight of dragons that afflicted the region, the largest dragon of the flight attacked Hillsfar and, although slain by the citys defenders, fell into Hillsfars harbor, blocking it from approaching ships until the corpse could be destroyed. A month later, in Flamerule, Hillsfar joined the military alliance of Cormyr, the Dalelands, Sembia, and Zhentil Keep to oppose the forces of Lashan Aumersair.
In 1357 DR Maalthiir overthrew the citys ruling council using blackmail and fear of violence. He then declared himself the First Lord, a position with absolute military power, which he retained through the violent mercenary group known as the Red Plumes. Extending his own xenophobic tendencies, Maalthiir then banned all non-humans from the city.
In 1360 DR, Hillsfar was involved in the Cormyr-led military alliance to defeat the invading Grand Army of the Tuigan, though they ended up only sending 600 men, mostly Red Plumes, to actually take part in the fighting.
In the , a pool of radiance emerged in Hillsfars harbor, starting to aggressively consume lives of the citys residents. The spawn pool originated from the ruined city of Myth Drannor where it was corrupted and abused by the Cult of the Dragon. Kya Mordrayns cult cell spread tentacles of her corrupted pool, feeding it in cities across the Moonsea, empowering it. Subsequently the Cults plans were shattered and its leaders slain by the Veiled Ones. With the main pool of radiance gone, Hillsfar was saved.
The following summer, a secret alliance was exposed between Maalthiir and the Sembian government when Sembia was found to be propping up Hillsfars independence from Zhentil Keep.
In the late 15 century DR, a new periodical publication called Beldrouks Bright Banners appeared in Hillsfar, quickly becoming favorite for its blunt political commentaries that voiced off against the Red Plumes and Hillsfars cruel leadership. The papers anonymous contributors were announced wanted criminals by Hillsfar but even the publisher and printer remained unknown.
*Bugbears Cave, a pub of note in the western part of the city.
*Hydras Den Tavern, a busy pub in the south-west of the city.
*Market Street, one of the streets in Hillsfar.
*Ruby Slippers Pub, a tavern of note in Hillsfar.