Kingdom City
Hlondath was one of the three survivors of Netheril that later came to collectively be known as the Lost Kingdoms.
It was considered to be the least influential of the Lost Kingdoms, also known as the Three Realms, not possessing the great magical prowess of Asram or the wealth and power of Anauria.
Hlondath was the northernmost of the Three Realms, located in the northern portion of what would later be known as the Sword region of the Anauroch desert. The independent town of Oum lay between the borders of Hlondath and Asram.
Hlondaths wealth came in the form of animal husbandry and the lumber industry. The nations craftspeople produced all manner of vital wooden goods including carts, high-quality furniture, and even paper.
Along with Asram, Hlondath enjoyed a good relationship with the realm of Tarkhaldale, as well as the dwarves of Oghrann.
Along with Asram and Anauria, Hlondath was founded as a survivor state of Netheril, following the magocracys collapse in the . They were spared from Karsuss Folly by the newly-emerged goddess Mystra. The Hlundite people immediately began blaming their woes on others, especially the elves of Cormanthyr who they saw as allies of the aberrant and evil phaerimm.
Sometime after the nations formation, the archmage Raumark led a great relocation of some of his people in a fleet of skyships to the opposite side of Faerûn in the Shining South. After setting down in a great basin in the mountains, these Hlundite emigrants went on to found the southern magocracy of Halruaa.
In -255 DR, Hlundite warriors destroyed the city of Monikar after it brutally slew Netherese refugees after offering them shelter.
The Hlundites took aggressive actions against the elves of Cormanthyr in the ,Page 117 of Netheril Empire of Magic — The Winds of Netheril states that this occurred in 538 DR, in direct conflict with several other sources. in an effort to steal a portion of the magical power they possessed. This initial hostility prevented the Cormanthan elves from wholly defending themselves from their drow enemies, and began the Crown against the Scepter Wars. Though the elves did not consider the conflict a true war, they emerged victorious after threatening the humans with complete annihilation in the , and were left even more fearful of ever-present expansion of the human race.
In the , Hlondath was abandoned when the growing Anauroch desert began to destroy its pastures and threated to completely overrun its land. The Hlundite population migrated mostly to the Moonsea or to the Dalelands,Page 14 of FRCS 2nd edition - Running the Realms circa 300 DR but that the exact date is unknown. This has been clarified in subsequent sourcebooks. though a great many of them made their way to the city of Yrlaancel. Their descendants came to be known as the human ethnic group of the Vaasans, who came to settle much of that region of Faerûn.
Some historians speculated that Hlondath and Anauria had suffered greatly from a dracorage at some point in their respective histories.
While Cormanthan elves denied that the Hlundite people ever successfully stole any items of real value from their kingdom, reports from Zhentarim spies observing elven bladesingers in the ruins of Mhaelos in the 14 century DR contradicted these claims.
Most recorded information about Hlondath originated from the dwarves of Tethyamar, who were forced to flee their home beneath the Teshan Mountains.
* Mhaelos, Hlondaths capital.
* Rulvadar, a fortified city that offered protection to the people of the northern Moonsea.