Huacli was a nation in Central Maztica. Five of its six city-states were conquered by Nexal.
Huacli was located west of Nexal, in a mostly barren, rocky land liberally strewn with mountains. However, the six city-states were located in a series of fertile valleys that better allowed for human habitation. These city-states included Ixtal, Pulco, and Otomi.
 Ixtal  Ixtal was the eastern- and southernmost of the Huacli city-states, located the closest to the Valley of Nexal. It was also the first Huacli city-state conquered by Nexal, in a quick, brutal campaign.
 Pulco  Pulco was the central city-state of Huacli. Shortly after Nexal conquered Ixtal, it used "diplomacy" (involving threats and bribes) to convince Pulco to join them.
 Otomi  Otomi was the northernmost of the Huacli city-states, located in a valley surrounded by harsh, mountainous terrain. These mountains contained copper, which the Otomi people mined and smelted into weapons and other items, making them the only Maztican society to have practical metal-working. Their location and copper weapons were the main reasons why they, alone of the Huacli city-states, remained unconquered by the Nexalans.
 Mictlatepec  A mysterious city perched on a mesa in the Huacli mountains. It was abandoned long ago, and strange creatures were said to live there.
Huacli was inhabited solely by humans of the Nexalan ethnic group, meaning they were were tall and lean with angular features. The Huacli spoke their own language, which was related to Nexalan, but with a different dialect for each city-state.
Huacli society was clan-based, and highly patriarchal. They had a warlike culture, practiced human sacrifice, and worshiped the Maztican pantheon.
Each of the city-states was ruled by a hereditary chieftain. Warriors and priests were highly respected as well.
Long before the Huacli lived in the region named for them, an ancient people called the Zateca dominated the area. What happened to them was unknown, but they were the ones who built the city of Mictlatepec.
Centuries later, after the Huacli people had claimed the region, the Nexalan army under the reign of Ipana III conquered five of the six city-states. Only Otomi, in its mountain fastness, remained unconquered, despite a 3-year-long siege by the Nexalans.
Later on, during the reign of Nexals Revered Counselor Pakli, an expedition was sent against Otomi again, but a defeat of the Nexalans in Kultaka caused the expedition to fail, and three of the conquered city-states rebelled as well. Although the rebellion was quashed, it took most of Paklis remaining rule to do so.
The final expedition Nexal sent against Otomi was during the reign of Chalco. He led his army against the Otomi, finding more success than any other in Nexals history. He managed to invade and occupy the city, but the people fled into the harsh mountains and waited there, only returning after the Nexalans had left, and rebuilt their city.