Ilinvur, also spelled Ilinver,
In the mid–14 century DR, Ilinvur comprised about 6000 residents and was governed by a mage installed jointly by Melvaunt and Thentia who was assisted by twenty heavily armed Keepers of the Peace. In the event of a major orc, flind, or ogre attack, the leader could report to Melvaunt and Thentia via crystal ball.
In the late–15 century DR, the settlement comprised  only 250 residents—mostly human, with several dozen dwarves and a family of gnomes. The village then existed under the protection of Phlan and was governed by a diarchy, with one leader responsible for defense and the other for administration. The settlement had no formal military, but could raise a militia from among the community in times of need.
thumb|Map of Ilinvur and vicinity, circa 1480 DR.
Ilinvurs main export was metal mined from the West Galena Mountains, which was smelted into bars and loaded onto caravans of rothé-pulled sledges for transport elsewhere, usually to be traded for food.
By nature of the settlements location between the Moonsea to its west via the Ilinvur Trail, Vaasa to its east via Garumns Climb, and the Great Glacier and far-off reaches of the Moonsea North to the its north via the Way of the Powrie, Ilinvur was a crossroads and stopover for adventurers and merchants excited to seek and to sell treasures from these disparate places.
Ilinvur spent much of its existence as a client to powers on the Moonsea, including Melvaunt, Thentia, and Phlan. After the rise of the Warlock Knights of Vaasa in the 15 century DR, the settlement saw increased trade flowing to and from the east, but the people remained wary of the intentions of the Warlock Knights.
In the spring of the , the town and the surrounding country underwent waves of attacks from barbarians and elementals originating out of the Tortured Lands. Much of the village was burned down and effectively abandoned, with many of its people seeking refuge by fleeing east to Avang or south towards Phlan.
As of 1480 DR, the town was a small collection of two-story bungalows spread out around the town square. Most shops and merchants operated out of stalls in the town square, which had been built around a great fire pit that kept the merchants warm in the cold northern climate. An establishment called The Pick was the villages only inn and served also as its sole tavern. No temples existed within the settlement, but shrines could be found dedicated to Bane, Gond, Tempus, and Selûne.