Iljak was one of the largest and most powerful city-states in the Vilhon Reach.. Sometimes it fell under the control of Chondath.
Iljak stood on the southern shore of the Vilhon Reach, neighboring Samra to the north-east and Shamph to the south-east. All three cities were connected by a triangle of routs connected to the Emerald Corridor trade route.
Iljak was ruled by the governor, who, in turn, was controlled by Chondath. In the late-14 century DR, Iljak was ruled by Governor Anton Yinoran. The Governorship of Iljak was considered a light dictatorship by some and an unwilling puppet by others, the fact that the citys governor denied. The truth of the matter was simple, Iljak paid its high taxes to Arrabar because it could not afford to go against northern Hlath southern Arrabar.
Circa the mid–14 century DR, Iljak was defended in part by a band of mercenaries that specialized in amphibious-combat operations. Originally founded across Vilhon Reach sea, these Turmishite warriors were hired by various organizations across the Vilhon Reach region to deal with unwanted smugglers.
thumb|The three neighboring cities of Iljak, 320x320px
Iljaks main industries were fishing and agriculture. The city grew several crops and grains that were exported out to Arrabar, Reth, and even to the citys adversaries, such as Hlath.
Even though both Iljak and Hlath were part of Chondath, the two cities shared animosity that resulted in a series of raids on Iljakian visitors and merchants who traveled along the Old Road and along the Emerald Corridor. Iljak was very much shaped by its past disastrous destruction. These historical scars informed the citys cautious demeanor and serious attitude towards aggression from its neighbors. The neighboring cities of Shamph and Samra were watched with suspicion and readiness.
Iljak was the first major trade city in the Vilhon Reach, established in the . Many smaller towns and villages that surrounded the area quickly joined the city to be able to use its busy port. The city grew rapidly, regularly pushing out farmers and moving their fields and pastures further and further away. By the end of the year, Iljak was controlling territory, 50-miles in radius surrounding the city.
By the , Iljak had several towns that competed for territory and trade. Namely, the cities of Samra and Mussum. Iljak started a war with its two neighbors on the 12 of Flamerule. The battle took place on the beaches of Mussum and was in a state of a stalemate by the early Eleasius. The war ended soon after Samras forces flanked Iljaks army and raided the city while it was unprotected. Iljak was overpowered and surrendered to Samra and Mussum, who, in turn, sold soldiers and civilians of the torched city into slavery.
A disaster struck Chondath in the . A disease known as the Panicked Plague stricken Mussum. The plague wiped  75% of the citys population overnight. Survivors fled now dead city and settled in the small village of Iljak. The city grew after the demise of its old enemy. In 900 DR, Chondath entered into a civil war, the Rotting War, that lasted until 902 DR and ended in cities of Chondath becoming independent city-states. Iljak remained under the shattered nations control.
Iljak was almost completely burned down once again following a fierce trade war circa 1340 DR. By the , Iljak was rebuilt and found itself in a small-scale war with the city of Hlath along the Emerald Corridor, the main trade route through Chondath. Both cities considered themselves rightful recipients of the trade that flowed through the Corridor, and the conflict was kickstarted by Hlaths raids on Iljaks caravans. While this conflict smoldered, the cities of Arrabar and Shamph profited from the merchants unwilling to get involved. And by 1372 DR, the citys new walls were almost complete.
With the advent of the Spellplague of the , the nation of Chondath was destroyed by the wild magics. The cities of Arrabar, Hlath, Iljak, Reth, and Shamph became twisted ruins of danger and lost riches that beckoned adventures. After the return of Mystra during the Second Sundering, the spell-scarred land of was healed, and as of late-15 century DR, Chondath was returned to the face of Toril.
*Cascade, the seat of Iljaks power, a marble-carved palace, and the home of the citys Governor.
*Temple of the Vigilant Guard, one of the five major temples of Helm, the Vigilant One in the Vilhon Reach.
*The church of Silvanus had a shrine to the Forest Father in the city.