, grew to prominence by First Sundering and more by ), Vhaeraun (major until First Sundering)
Ilythiir was a realm of the dark elves during the Dawn Ages and First Flowering (founded roughly ) before being destroyed after the Descent of the Drow following the Fourth Crown War.
Ilythiir was an expansionist country, that started in the southern jungles and spread throughout southern Faerûn during the Dawn Age. It experienced another period of expansion during the First Flowering, during which it spread across the areas later known as the  Shaar and Forest of Amtar.
Ilythiir was founded by dark elves. According to KaNarlist, this was due to a genetic dominance of the dark elves. If the same was a measure, the dark elves derived a claim for superiority from their trait.
Ilythiir was a nation that institutionalized slavery. Known slaves included elves, wemics and minotaurs.
After Syòrpiir, Eiellûr and Thearnytaar fell in the face of Ilythiirs strength, the moon and wild elves were enslaved. The aforementioned trait of the dark elves included their offsprings as dark elves in one-two generations.
Furthermore, Ilythiir was a society in which results of the research topic "creation of life" were a source of pride and they did create specific creatures to serve them. Athamault was one such research facility.
Clan Sethomiir
was the ruling House of Ilythiir. Its fiendish patron was Wendonai.
Clan Hune
was a clan of Ghaunadaur-followers. They aided the remnants of Miyeritar of House Aelryth.
KaNarlist
leader of Atorrnash
After the dark elves were banished from the sunlit realms after the Crown Wars, most of the remnants of the empire were razed by elves hoping to eradicate any presence of their evil cousins. The ruins of Ilythiir were the most sparse of all the ancient elf empires to survive into later ages.
Athamault
or the "Iron Pit" was a fortress built during the Second Crown War near the Lake of Steam. It served as a research facility for spells and the alchemical creation of life.
Citadel of Slime
was a cave, that functioned as a temple, and a site to conduct sacrificial rituals, to Ghaunadaur.
Elder Orb of Ooze
was a subterranean temple to Ghaunadaur. Clan Hune built it to empower themselves but were killed by their god for some offense.
Misty Vale
was strictly spoken not Ilythiirs territory. The Wild elves who helped Ilythiir during the Second Crown War were granted this land.
Narathmault
or the "Dark Pit" was a fortress in Riildath, or Forest of Lethyr and Rawlinswood, built around .
The drow, Ilythiirs descendants, intentionally ignore their forebears history for it forced them to accept how much they did lose. However, there were organizations that did remember their roots
Church of Vhaeraun The church of Vhaerauns goal was to bring the drow back to power and take back what theyd lost.
Fanatics of the Overflowing Pit This was an order of crusaders dedicated to Ghaunadaur. It was presumed that they survived the fall of Ilythiir and continued to exist in some fashion in Llurth Dreier.
The elves came to Toril via gates of the Fey, around . The dark elves were the members of the second immigrant wave and differed from the elves of the first immigration wave, aquatic elves, avariels and lytharis, It wasn’t clear how they managed it but the Ilythiiri negotiated with dragons and founded the first elven state on Faerûn, Ilythiir, with the capitol of Atorrnash. 
Like all other elves during that time, the Ilythiiri didn’t have an idea that something like an elven pantheon existed. Ghaunadaur’s faith was a minor player but had only a small following. In Ilythiir, religious affiliation wasn’t a factor that prevented one from climbing the social ladder as proven by KaNarlist, a follower of Ghaunadaur, who managed to advance to a position like one of the leaders of Attornash.Where he was respected to foreign diplomats whom he met for the first time.
After accidentally destroying their own country around , elves from Tintageer fled to Toril. then killing, and then taking the red dragon Mahatnartorian’s territory for themselves.
Around , the Dracorage mythal was created as a concerted effort of elves. This act, gradually weakened the hold of the dragons and eventually lead to the end of the Time of Dragons and with it to the start of the First Flowering.
Around , Lolth’s attention was directed to Toril through the intrusion of Kethryllia into her Demonweb Pits.
During the first millennium of the First Flowering, Ilythiir spread further to the south and to the east of the continent. Around the time of , Ilythiirs territory included the Shaar and the Forest of Amtar.
During this time Ilythiir was on generally good terms with the newly founded elven nations,
Around -18000DR, some Ilythiiri nobles discovered Ghaunadaur as a suitable patron for them. Other evil deities, Lolth among them, also made inroads into the nobility of that country.
In a matter of centuries, Lolths machinations successfully poisoned the previously good relationships between Ilythiir and the other nations. It went to the point, that the different elven subraces sought a means to get rid of dark elves. The idea didnt revolve around killing but the creation of a dark-elf free piece of land. Among those who were excluded from the project and from the result were dark elves on their side like worshipers of Eilistraee The exclusion heightened general resentments between dark elves and others.
Around , the First Sundering to create the aforementioned dark elf-free land was cast, the continent was destroyed as collateral damage. Among this collateral damage was Atorrnash, Ilythiirs capitol. The casualties in lives were immense Conflict with the church of Eilistraee opened the path for Ghaunadaur and Lolth to become more popular.
Around , three elven realms, Thearnytaar, Eiellûr and Syòrpiir made steps to unify themselves into a single nation. Ilythiir sabotaged these efforts
The Crown Wars were a series of wars that led to the end to the elves golden age.
In , Miyeritar lost the First Crown War against Aryvandaar. in , not because they had strong relationship with Miyeritar, their relationship was thin, but because that nation was the only other one with a meaningful proportion of dark elves. In their quest to destroy Aryvandaars allies, Ilythiir destroyed Orishaar. That nation was an ally and major trade partner of Aryvandaar, which also lay physically the closest to Ilythiir. These successes took its own momentum and new wars like the Second Crown War were practically a foregone conclusion.
After Orishaar fell, Ilythiir isolated and burned down Syòrpiir around . This usage of fire was considered so offensive by Thearnytaar and Eiellûr, that they decided to fight Ilythiir.
At around the same time, a balor under Lolth’s employment, and bought power from the demon and with it from Lolth. It catapulted Lolths church to importance in Ilythiir. The nation’s nobility followed their royalty’s example and bought power from other fiendish patrons. Around this time, the mind set and conduct of the Ilythiir became one that made the pretense to avenge Miyeritar sound less and less serious. Until the Fourth Crown War, apart from Lolth, Ghaunadaur, Kiaransalee and Vhaeraun provided the dark elves similar help. These kind of actions led to the Ilythiiri to gain the nickname dhaerow.
The arrangement with fiends proved itself successful. Ilythiir found itself attacked during the Sable Wars, (circa ). They faced an invading force from Eiellûr and Thearnytaar, in addition to a small amount of aid provided by Keltormir and Shantel Othreier, aiming to reform or conquer the dark elves before they destroyed any more realms. Over half the invading forces were wiped out by the dark elves corrupt magic.
By , Eiellûr was isolated and burned down like Syòrpiir. Ilythiir had help of who hoped to restore peace by appeasing the Ilythiiri. Keltomir got frightened of Ilythiir and prepared for an attack against it. The two nations skirmished along its southern and eastern borders in the following years.
Around , resistance against Aryvandaar re-flared in Miyeritar.  The scale wasnt clear but Ilythiirs factions sending aid to Miyeritars in the form of weapons, intelligence and training wasnt unheard of. 
Eventually, Miyeritar was destroyed by the Dark Disaster, the suspected culprits were Aryvandaar (based on no evidence), or Miyeritars high mages, as an accident to harness power for their resistance. Either way, Ilythiir blamed Aryvandaar and the Fourth Crown War was launched, circa . This new wave of hostilities saw the Ilythiiri openly using the corrupt powers granted them by their dark and evil gods, namely Lolth, Ghaunadaur, Kiaransalee and Vhaeraun.
During this war, Keltomir ceded land around  and forced Aryvandaar and Ilythiir to face each other in  over the Stone and Claw Campaign, it was the first time the two nations faced each other in a military campaign.
Ilythiir attacked Shantel Othreier, by that point Aryvandaars territory. Still, elves asked the Seldarine for divine salvation.
Elves plea were answered by . Corellons magic changed the dark elves into drow. Over the course of two months, weakness against sunlight and/or the efforts of the other elven nations drove them into the Underdark and Ilythiir ended.
FRIlythiir
CategoryCountries
CategoryFormer countries
CategoryLocations
CategoryElven locations
CategoryTelQuessir civilizations
CategoryLocations in South Faerûn
CategoryLocations in Faerûn
CategoryLocations on Toril
n1q6m9o0nwvphjcwl18qk9rtf4o46fq