Immil Vale was a valley in Rashemen in the northern stretch of the Running Rocks peaks. It was magical place to the Rashemaar people, and perhaps most famous as the site of the Battle of Immil Vale, that occurred in the mid–14 century DR.
Immil Vale was a deep and narrow chasm that experienced perpetual springtime due to underground volcanic activity.
It was situated at the northern end of the Running Rocks mountains, north of the Ashenwood forest.
The Wychlaran outpost called the Watchtower stood nearby to the vale. The furthest outpost that could be seen from the valley was the sisters on the Rookery Peak.
The Immil Vale featured green grass and vibrant trees that sprang up all year round, naturally-occurring geysers, and fissures that shot steam into the air, creating a pervasive mist that blanketed the entire bally.
A great variety of multi-colored birds lived among the trees and perches of the vale, the sight of which were not at all common in Rashemen.
During the Time of Troubles, in the , the valley was transformed into a dead-magic zone.
In the  the valley was the site of the great Battle of Immil Vale, between the Rashemaar forces and the Grand Army of the Tuigan.
* Mosstone, an enormous moss-covered stone that offered dream-visions to those who slept in its presence.
Like much of Rashemen, the valley was protected by the many fey spirits and telthors that were bound to the stones and trees found within.
A single bheur was known to dwell within an abandoned mine that was dug out inside the vale.
To the Rashemaar people the Immil Vale was a place of pure magic and enchantment. It was stated that the goddess of magic, the Hidden One as she was referred to in Rashemen, blessed the Immil Vale with eternal springtime and warmth from the cold, in order that the Rashemaar people would always be reminded of the season of rebirth during the cold darkness of winter. 
Many people made pilgrimages to the Immil Vale, believing it to be the center of some manner of spiritual network.