Jesters Green (formerly Soldiers Green) or just the Green, was a village and campground just north of Suzail.
The village was mainly made up of the merchants and artisans who served the resident Purple Dragons encamped there.
Jesters Green lay a few miles north of Suzail between the Way of the Dragon and Calantars Way.
A market was set up for the benefit of the resident Purple Dragons amid their barracks, allowing merchants to bring choice goods for the soldiers. Anyone attempting to scam or sabotage the Dragons was typically found out quickly and punished severely. In one example, a Zhentarim spy attempted to sell poisoned wine to the soldiers, only to be detected by a War Wizard and then torn to pieces by the enraged Dragons.
Once a tenday there was a horse market on the Green, where breeders came to sell horseflesh to the urban folk of Suzail, country folk from afar, and the local Purple Dragons.
Trade fairs were also held at the Green in summer, with the proceedings observed by guild representatives to ensure fair and regular dealings. Merchants could stay for a tenday at a time, and were limited to the northern edge of the field. These affairs were closely watched by the Purple Dragons and War Wizards to ensure illicit goods were not traded and foreign agents were not active amid the hustle and bustle.
In addition to millitary and mercantile gatherings, open-air public services for various religions were performed on the Green.
The Green had originally been a settlement before Cormyr existed, but it was wiped out by goblins. It was later used to drill the palace guards of Suzail and marshal the local militia, and came to be known as Soldiers Green. 
Keolan Dracohorn claimed to have slain a blue dragon at this site, gaining the family name, but he had actually just found a dead young dragon and falsely laid claim to the kill.
Gantharla Obarskyr stationed her foresters here during her return to Suzail in 245 DR when she took the throne.
The Green gained its modern name from the inn that formerly sat in the center of the field. The innkeeper was a corrupt rogue wizard known as the Jester, but when he attempted to defraud a Red Wizard of Thay, the innkeeper and inn were destroyed by a meteor storm spell. Thereafter, the area was known as Jesters Green.Thay became a nation in 922 DR and the site was referred to as Jesters Green in 1018 DR, so the event seemingly happened in the century between.
After Gray Oaks was destroyed in 1358 DR, Jesters Green became the largest market in Cormyr for farmers and caravans to meet at.
During the Goblin War in 1371 DR, the army of Cormyr mustered at Jesters Green under Battlemaster Haliver Ilnbright before marching to Calantars Bridge to do battle.
Some folk speculated that there were secret portals near Jesters Green that led to a hidden royal archive that recorded every noble personage in the realm, akin to the Heralds of Faerûn.
* The Green itself was a huge field kept as a mustering ground and campfield, used by the Purple Dragons, merchants, and caravans.
* A permanent Purple Dragons barracks was built on the edge of the Green, including a market for traders.
* The Lucky Dragon, a gambling house that gave the local Dragons a half-price discount.
* The Flame of Love Lutery, a trinket shop that catered to romantic items.
* The Old Codpiece Arms & Armory, a second-hand weapons and armor shop.