Jukum was the second-largest Iulutiun settlement.
Jukum was located on southeastern shore of the Lugalpgotak Sea,
Unlike most Ulutiun settlements, Jukum was laid out in an organized manner. It was divided into four districts. The north district contained a fresh-water pool and small canals brought water to the homes of the villagers. The east district was the location of the yearly sukkiruchit market. The southern district was divided off for games and feasts, and the western district for the butchering of animals. The western district contained twelve separate ukujik for this purpose.
Snowhouses were constructed in straight rows, and the entire village was surrounded in a circle by a dozen quaggi for communal meals.
Like most large Iulutiun villages, Jukum was overseen by a village council, or iquemelum.
The culture of Jukum was one that strongly encouraged excellence in the arts. The village was full of beautiful ice sculptures, children learned from an early age how to play music on bone flutes, and choirs sang epic, poetic tales at the end of feasts. Every month, the village even held a poetry festival, which was open to the citizens of other villages as well. The iquemelum would award prizes of mittens, meat, or other valuables to the winners.
Jukum was also one of the two locations where the annual sukkiruchit festival took place&mdashthe other location being Lilinuk. This trade fair attracted craftsmen and hunters from all over Alpuk. A typical sukkiruchit would gather over a thousand attendees.
Around 1350 DR, during an experiment in magic, one of the villages anagakoks, Dygah, poisoned the water supply. For this crime he was exiled. Dygah afterwards vowed revenge.
The villagers of Jukum were especially warm and welcoming, even for Iulutiuns.
Among the inhabitants were the following persons of note
* Dygah, the anagakok who was exiled for poisoning the water supply,
* Joqui, one of the kiam
* Kallak, Joquis daughter, who was severely burned,
* Mafwik, an anagakok interested in magical research.