Kadar was a fallen empire in the land of Zakhara
This empire was situated in the jungles around the Nogaro River and the adjacent river valleys, southeast of the Haunted Lands and south of World Pillar Mountains and Jungle of Monsters. 
The Plateau of the Gate, a site that would later be occupied by the city of Dihliz, marked the entrance to their empire and was guarded by an earth monolith.  Beneath some of the ruins of this civilization were a deep and vast network of underground tunnels, stretching into Zakharas Underdark.
Kadar was believed to be older than the other known lost empire in the region, Nog, having been founded a thousand years prior to it by Geomancers. Their rule was eventually toppled by missionaries of the Enlightenment, After they departed, the resulting power vacuum was filled by a dynasty of corrupt khedives and worship of the savage goddess known as Ragarra peaked.
Much like Nog, historians in Zakhara considered the history of Kadar to be convoluted and confusing. This was because it seemed to have gone through several different dynasties, which may or may not have simultaneously ruled different regions along the Nogaro. And because the Lions of Yesterday had so efficiently removed all traces of the Geomancers existence. Whether or not Kadar and Nog were considered enemies was one of many aspects of their history that historians in Zakhara were uncertain of.
Unlike some regions in Zakhara, both Kadar and Nog resisted the faith of Enlightenment.
Some tried to claim that genies were created to punish both Kadar and Nog for being sacrilege, or that genies were initially unleashed upon the Prime Material plane for this reason. While others proposed it was most likely that their empires eventually fell due to a combination of corruption, greed, and exclusion from the West.
Those who believed that genie were responsible told that a minor power among the Zakharan pantheon traveled throughout the cities of both empires in a mortal disguise and warned them that the Great Gods were angry with them. After being met with ridicule and thrown stones, the wisest among the pantheon suggested that they appoint the genies to be their generals and carry out their will. But another minor power among the pantheon traveled to the empires once more and warned them of the cleansing to come. Managing to convince some, he took those few away on ships with their great treasures to what would be known as the Steaming Isles. Some believed that inhabitants of both empires also fled to the island of Jazirat al-Gawwar.
The historical legacy of Kadar was survived by many inscriptions, writings, and magical artifacts.
During the reign of the Geomancers the worship of Grumbar was significant, with every member of the nobility being trained to be a priest in his service. Following their fall, new religious ideas emerged within the empire.
The people of Kadar both feared and revered nature, including the Nogaro River itself. Living idols were considered to be remnants of their civilizations faith. In addition to Ragarra, they were known to worship a variety of savage gods, though only Kiga and Shajar would survive into the 14 century DR.