Karak was a city in the kingdom of Koryo in Kara-Tur. It lay at the edge of the great Quang Muku Forest, by the sea.
Karak was once under Kozakuran rule, and they built a subterranean fortress beneath the city. Some ten generations before 1357 DR, Kozakuran forces stole the Hui Wing, a sacred relic in the town of Goisho, and carried it off to Karak. They built it into the fortress.
Around the year 1200 by Koryoan reckoning, many refugees of Karak sailed along the coast to Tu Pe and moored their junks to the citys famous Long Pier. The ensuing traffic jam grew and grew until it became the notorious Floating City. The Koryoan calendar has not yet been given in any official source, so the date given for the beginning of the Floating City — "the year 1200 by our reckoning" — has no clear correspondence with any other calendar, or even with the present of the Koryo chapter in Kara-Tur The Eastern Realms. This may have occurred around the time of Kozakuran rule in Karak. The Floating City of 1357 DR appears to be too old for this to be a recent happening.
In 1357 DR, Karak was at the center of an ongoing war for territory between the kingdom of Koryo and advance forces of Kozakura. The war left many innocent people injured, and around a thousand people fled north to Singye and camped outside that city. One morning, the bodies of fifteen black-clad ninja were discovered in the streets of Karak, and they were seen as evidence of Kozakuran encroachment. King Wanang Sun considered dispatching more soldiers to the area. The war between Koryo and Kozakura is not mentioned in the Kozakuran chapter of Kara-Tur The Eastern Realms, so the cause and nature of this war are unknown.
Beneath Karak was a vast subterranean fortress dating back to the time of Kozakuran rule. By 1357 DR, many levels remained unexplored and flooded, and folk whispered of Kozakuran invaders still in hiding in its depths. Only the very bravest risked venturing inside, as it was very dangerous.
However, somewhere inside the fortress was the Hui Wing, a massive magical brazier that revealed the future and was one of the most valued relics of Koryo. It was built into the fortress itself so it could never be removed without being destroyed, and so would remain there.