Kitchers Folly was a monument in Chult erected in honor of a would-be great explorer from Scardale, Sir Ilyber Kitcher, after his death, several centuries before 1362 DR.
Kitchers Folly was located in a weed-infested clearing along a jungle trail that led away from Port Castigliar. The center of the small clearing let sun and moonlight spotlight the monument to Ilyber Kitcher. The statue was a great stone  tall bust of the infamous adventurer. By 1362 DR, the monuments facial features were somewhat eroded by the elements. However, a traveler could still recognize Ilybers unpleasant bitter face with grim eyes that were crowned with severe eyebrows. The busts clenched thin lips were wrapped in a long hanging stone mustache. At the base of the great stone head several inscriptions were cut into the rock, similarly faded with centuries.
According to Artus Cimbers notes, Kitchers Folly laid inland, to the west from Port Castigliar, reachable via a small jungle trail used by the local Tabaxi folk. The Folly could be reached within seven days track through the jungle, including nightly rest.
Several centuries before 1362 DR, a pompous and overly ambitious nobleman explorer from Scardale, Sir Ilyber Kitcher arrived in Chult. Financed by his rich Uncle Castigliar, Ilyber embarked on uncovering unmapped Chultan lands and planned to erect a series of enchanted monuments to commemorate his future glorious achievements. He planned to place these busts on the sites of his discoveries and illustrious battles and enchant them to recite the tales of Sir Kitchers achievements and inform travelers about local flora and fauna and survival tips.
In the end, Kitchers career ended quickly as he was killed early on. His Uncle, thankful for a plot of land named after him, later to become the settlement Port Castigliar, paid a group of people to sneak into the jungle and erect one monument that came to be infamous for its history, Kitchers Folly.
In 1362 DR, Artus Cimber traveled past Kitchers Folly along with his guide Judar Zanj and four bearers towards the dangerous Altispinax Swamp.
Some of the local superstitious sorts thought Kitchers Folly to be a petrified evil giant, buried chest-deep in the ground by Ubtao himself as a warning to keep outsiders away from the jungle.