Koguryo was a kingdom in the land of Choson and later a province of the kingdom of Koryo in Kara-Tur.Like many sites in Koryo, Koguryo shares a name with a real-world counterpart Goguryeo, also spelled "Koguryo", one of the Three Kingdoms of Korea.
Koguryo lay in the south-western "toe" of the boot-like shape of the Koryo Peninsula, centered around the Ziyero Ridge. It was bordered in the north-east along the Tumen River by the kingdom of Silla and flanked on both sides of the peninsula by the Straits of Koryo and the Dragons Teeth straits.
Sites within Koguryo were the Dang Caverns, Naktong Moors, and the Tumen River and Ziyero Ridge.
The kingdom included the city of Pyong Do.Although Koguryo is marked on the map, it is not known which of the cities and towns marked within it were a part of the kingdom and which were independent or belonging to other powers. Only Pyong Do is confirmed as a city of the kingdom of Koguryo.
The later province of Koguryo included the settlements of Ansong, Konang Pen, Moki, Ojy-do, Paektu-san, Pan, Pyong Do, and Taiku.
A famed general of Koguryo named Huat Rhu once led his soldiers on an expedition into the Naktong Moors. They never returned. By the 14th century DR, it was rumored they still wandered the moors, now as peat mummies and zombies hunting for fresh blood.
In the early 14th century, the rival kingdom of Silla was at war with Koguyro, under the then king of Silla. In the 1330s DR, the king of Silla conquered Koguyro and Saishu, unifying the whole land of Choson into the Sillan Empire and defending against all threats.This is "15 years before" a point "several years ago" from 1357 DR. 
Finally, around 1350 DR,"Several years" before 1357 DR. the king of Sillas secret invasion of Kozakura ended in catastrophe that saw the end of his reign he abdicated and fled. In his place, General Wanang Sun seized the throne, becoming king and reforming the Sillan Empire into the Empire of Koryo. He welded Koguryo and the old factions of Choson into a unified nation. Koguryo was thereafter a province of Koryo.
By 1357 DR, Koguryo was governed by an array of petty lords, who held allegiance to King Wanang Sun but might struggle for their independence when he passed on.
Around 1356 DR, in Shou eyes, Koguryo was seen as one of the petty kingdoms of Koryo who paid tribute to the Shou Lung empire.
* Huat Rhu