The term layer of the Abyss referred to each of the ever-changing miniature worlds in the chaotic tangle that constituted the Abyss.
The total number of Abyssal layers was not fixed at any given time, due to the ever-expanding and corrupting nature of the plane. If left unchecked, the continued presence of demons in a world in the Prime Material plane could erode the barriers between that place and the Abyss, leading to the opening of one or more portals and an ever-growing demonic presence. Over time, the Abyssal influence and the long-term presence of one or more demon lords could permanently corrupt that entire world, effectively converting it into a new layer.
Nevertheless, numerous attempts were made to catalog the layers. Some sources placed the number of layers at 666, while the Fraternity of Order claimed to have cataloged at least 679 layers, of which 141 were considered habitable. Most were accessible via portals from Pazunia, or from the Grand Abyss, but many had been sealed away and were no longer accessible. Those were called the "Lost Planes of the Abyss".
The Fraternity of Order numbered the layers by order of discovery. For that reason, there was not necessarily a spatial relation between layers of consecutive numbers, or a correlation with depth. Rather, a layer was considered "deep" if it lacked a direct connection with the first layer.
Each Abyssal layer was unique. The only common feature of all layers was their harsh and inhospitable environment, as well as the apparent corroded and decaying state of every feature, a reflection of the entropic nature of the entire plane. Some layers were controlled by one or more demon lords, whose natures ended up defining the character of the layer under their domain. Deities who claimed divine realms in the Abyss and even demon lords were extremely territorial and intolerant of intruders, always making an effort to extend their dominion over their entire layers. For that reason, each layer typically contained a single realm, so it was equivalent to either refer to a particular layer or to the realm therein.
The landscape of Pazunia.
Also known as Pazunia, the Palace of 1,001 Closets, the Plain of a Thousand Portals, and the Plain of Yawning Pits, this layer was a barren wasteland of scorching winds under a relentless red sun. The surface was marked by massive dark pits portals that plunged into many, but not all, of the deeper layers. The surface of the layer, cut through by the river Styx, connected to both Pandemonium and Hades in different edges. Its air space was ruled by the obyrith Pazuzu, Prince of the Lower Aerial Kingdoms. The landscape was marked with scattered iron fortresses claimed as fiefs by other demon lords, such as Aldinach, the Lady of Change, and Baltazo, a retired general of the Blood War, who claimed smaller domains on the layer as their own.
The layer was home to countless mane petitioners, who were constantly hunted for food or thrust down the pits into the deeper layers, as well as gangs of molydei that hunted demon stragglers. There were also a large number of mortal and outsider merchants and visitors throughout the layer, attracted by the opportunities offered by the layers countless portals. The largest of these pits was known as the Grand Abyss, which was considered a layer in its own right. Some pits worked as two-way portals, but others were only one-way.
Realm of Tharzax, It was inhabited by ekolids and hives of enormous insects at constant war with each other. The environment slowly turned visitors into insect creatures, although paladins were immune to this effect.
This layer drained the memories and identities of any mortal or demon that set foot on it. It was the realm of the demon lord Zzyczesiya,, the Ungrasped. The layer itself was said to have originated by a failed attempt to subvert the flow of the river Styx.
The layer was dotted with ancient abandoned cities. It was inhabited by creatures that fed on the life force of victims or on the loose thoughts that permeated the environment, such as reason stealers and vasuthants. It was also rumored to contain fragments of the Rod of Seven Parts or the Barbatos device for this reason, demon lords such as Grazzt and Demogorgon often sent exploration parties to the layer, led by golems.
left|Exploring the Grand Abyss.
Also known as the Blood Rift, The layer itself had no ruler.
In the World Axis cosmology, the tower of Khin-Oin was located in the Blood Rift. It was an enormous  tower that rose  above the city of Morglon-Daar on Pazunia and whose majority was anchored to the walls of the layer. It was the realm of Phraxas.
The origin of the layer was a subject of debate among sages some sources claimed that the layer originated from the explorations of the obyriths, who cooperated in exploring and perusing the various portals along the walls of the cliff. Others, however, claimed that the rift originated as a catastrophic effect of the battle between Demogorgon and Obox-ob, and appeared as a scar that permeated the very fabric of the plane. In any case, maps to the various portals along the crevasse were nearly all inaccurate, due to the ever-changing nature of the plane.
The realm contained ancient constructions along its depths, such as towers and bridges, that connected portals that were located in similar heights. These bridges were guarded by a wandering klurichir. The walls of the canyon were bathed by the toxic Blood River, whose exact course was also ever-changing, and the red mist that rose from the river favored the growth of moss and lichen along the walls. The rift was a constant battleground of demons, and plummeting corpses were not an uncommon sight.
Lordship over this layer was contested. The environment infected all visitors with a disease similar to mummy rot that destroyed their bodies from the inside out within a year. The disease bypassed known magical protection.
Realm of the Great Mother, chief goddess of the beholder pantheon. It was inhabited by every kind of beholder and beholderkin, who constantly fought each other.
The layer was a twisting network of tunnels filled with eyes protruding from the walls. The eyes belonged to the Great Mother herself.
Also known as Kearackinin. All portals leading to this layer were sealed. It was the realm of the demon lord Sessinnek, the Emperor Lizard, worshiped by lizardfolk. The layer was inhabited by lizard kings. It was discovered by Mordenkainen.
Realm of the demon lord Volisupula, the Flensed Marquesse. The layer corrupted the souls of all visitors in a matter of days. The only creatures immune to this effect were tieflings.
This layer had no ruler. It was an ocean of acid, inhabited by twisted sea creatures.
This layer had no ruler. The only food available in the layer were sentient creatures. It was discovered by the dwarf Gorbin, who spent only three minutes in the layer, but returned with numerous bite and puncture marks in his adamantine armor.
Lordship over this layer was contested. It was an underground land of tunnels in eternal darkness, inhabited by demons that constantly hunted each other by sense of smell.
300px|The center of Twelvetrees during a ritual.
This layer had no ruler.
The layer had been the site of a vile arcane ritual that involved the sacrifice of twelve astral devas who had been tricked into going to the plane for a peace conference. The devas were bound to twelve enormous pine trees around an altar in the otherwise desolate layer, and the ritual infused the entire plane with strong evil energy that amplified the effects of all evil magic performed there. The deafening screams of the devas could still be heard throughout the layer, under a permanently cloudy and thunderous sky.
Besides the inflow of low-ranking demon pilgrims who enjoyed a sort of religious ecstasy when visiting, the layer was sparsely inhabited by patrolling chasmes and kelvezus. A detachment of mortal sages from the Doomguard held a fortress on the layer, near a two-way portal to Pazunia. Those sages held an alliance with a consortium of demons to build ships of chaos.
This layer contained a vast ocean of red waters. It was characterized by inflicting bad luck on its visitors. It was the realm of two deities Beshaba, the Maid of Misfortune and Umberlee, the Bitch Queen, who dwelt in the depths of the red ocean.
The layer had been the site of an invasion of the Abyss by baatezu, who counted it as one of their greatest successes in the early days of the Blood War.
This layer was the realm of the Queen of Chaos.
Realm of the demon lord Abraxas the Unfathomable.    
Realm of the demon lord Kardum, Lord of the Balors.
Also known as the Ice Wastes, and illuminated by a dim and distant source, similar in brightness to a moon. It was the realm of the demon lord Kostchtchie, the Prince of Wrath.
The layer held an enormous amount of portals leading to a variety of planes, as well as other Abyssal layers. It was inhabited by frost giants, winter wolves, mavawhans, a small colony of ice archons, and several desperate demons. Because of the bitter cold, its inhabitants dwelt mostly in caves.
The plane was also the site of the ancient demon lord Veshvoriaks imprisonment. He was said to possess a profound knowledge of various subjects, available for a price.
This layer was an endless expanse of acid clouds with no solid ground. It was the realm of the Gaseous Lady Lissaaere the Noxious. The swirling poisonous mists were also home to alu-fiends, nabassu, and vrocks who formed an army of the Gaseous Lady to defend her realm from trespassers or direct baatezu threats to the borders of the Abyss.
Some of the acidic clouds could harden into ice occasionally, but would melt after fiends perched on them to rest. It was believed that those who fell far too deep were consumed by Lissaaere herself.
This layer was dominated by pure all-consuming hunger. Random pits spontaneously opened on the ground, dropping creatures in slowly digesting pools the layer even affected visitors, who started losing taste for food and developed cravings for the flesh of sentient beings. It was mostly surrounded by the Gnashing Crags, a range of mountains that resembled teeth. A second range of similar-looking but upside-down mountains could sometimes be glimpsed from far above the clouds. It was the realm of the demon prince Turaglas, the Ebon Maw.
The layer was inhabited by predatory insects, purple worms, vrocks, and other predators. Forests of flesh-eating trees led to an enormous acid ocean of gastric juices that eventually drained into the river Styx. At the bottom of this ocean, Turaglas slept, slowly coming back to consciousness.
The Forest of Vipers in the 45 layer of Rauwend.
Also called the Triple realm, Azzagrat spanned the 45th, 46th, and 47th layers of the Abyss
Rauwend  The 45th layer was a windswept steppe with a continual gray sky.
Shadowsky  The 46th layer had a luminous ground that projected shadows upwards into the sky.
Voorzzt  The 47th layer could only be accessed from the previous two it received light from a blue sun and had purple icy flames.
All three layers were connected by the River of Salt. Rocks from Rauwend and Voorzzt could be used to produce the purple bathaerel powder, a powerful rust-removing substance.
The largest city of the Triple Realm was Zelatar, which was also the location of the Argent Palace, Grazzts seat of power. It existed on all three layers and attracted visitors in search of obscure magic knowledge.
Also known as Nerebdian Vast, this layer was a desert realm that bordered both Azzagrat and Shaddonon. It had no ruler, but was coveted by Grazzt, who wanted to make it his fourth kingdom.
Realm of the demon lady Rhyxali, Queen of shadow demons.
Lordship over this layer was contested.
Realm of Urae-Naas the Slaad Lord. It resembled the interior of an endless mass of decaying intestines. The entire layer itself was said to be the corpse of the dead primordial Ramenos, god of the bullywugs.
Realm of the demon lord Alvarez, the Purging Duke.
This layer was also under the domain of Lolth.
This layer was an immense network of webs that folded on themselves to form a single giant spider web. All structures such as buildings and ships hung from the webs as if caught by them. The web created random portals connecting to the Prime Material Plane that drew in objects. Deep within the web were dungeons, and far beneath those lay the bottomless pits where Lolth dwelt.
Realm of varrangoin. It was formed of mountainous and swampy terrain and constantly shaken by earthquakes. With each earthquake, the terrain types were inverted and sometimes old ruins were unearthed. It was inhabited by froghemoths and hezrou.
This layer was abandoned. It was barren and completely airless.
Also known as The Crushing Plain. This layer spawned an unusually high amount of manes. The creatures were densely packed and occupied every bit of space on the layers surface and underground tunnels, potentially crushing and suffocating any creature who arrived by means of a portal. The layer had been unclaimed until the primordial Ollomegh arrived, claiming the layer as his domain and starting to endlessly devour the manes to satiate his equally endless appetite.
This layer had no ruler. It was a cold plain of thin ice over an ocean of black water with intense undercurrents. The ice could break easily under heavy weight. The cold drained away the life force of all creatures. It was discovered by githzerai.
This layer was a perpetual wilderness that resisted any attempt at civilization. Its dense fern forests and weeds quickly consumed any buildings until not even their ruins remained. For that reason, the layer had no ruler and served as hunting grounds for demon lords seeking game such as yeth hounds, vorrs, and nightmare beasts.
Atop one of the central mountains of the layer, there was a pool that had the power to rejuvenate a mortal that bathed in it. The price was to surrender a part of ones free will to Soneillon, a demon lady who dwelt in the depths of the pool.
Realm of the demon lord Nocticula the Undeniable. Within the layer, the shadows of good creatures shone brightly, while evil creatures were shrouded in darkness. The bright creatures were easily hunted down by demons to be sold as slaves or killed.
This layer was a rocky plain illuminated by a dim blue sun. It had scattered elevations surrounding pools of a black liquid, connected with one another by marble walkways. At the top of a higher mound, the crumbling fortress of Overlook, inhabited by specters and wraiths, provided a good view of the entire layer.
The realm had no ruler and was used by demon lords as a prison. The black liquid of the pools prevented escape, but allowed some telepathic communication so that the large custodian bodaks knew that the prisoners were still present. Only four prisoners were known to have escaped Bayemon, Shaktari, Siragle, and Zzyczesiya.
One particular prisoner was the demon lady Shami-Amourae, the Lady of Delights and former consort of Demogorgon, said to be one of the very few who truly understood his double personality. Shami-Amourae remained imprisoned until an attempted escape. She was later presumed dead, and was found to have become a vestige trapped within the domain of Barovia in the Shadowfell.
This layer was an extremely hot jungle of several layers of emerald canopies of shifting colors and poisonous fermenting pools under constant acid rain. It contained the realms of Merrshaulk, god of the yuan-ti, and Ramenos, god of the bullywugs,
Realm of the demon lords Munkir, the White Guardian, and Nekir, the Black Guardian.
Realm of the demon lord Anarazel, the Daring Darkness.
This layer was a marsh of acidic blood-red water under a white sky with blue clouds. The river Styx ran on the edge of the swamp. The layer had no ruler,
The brine flats and jutting rocks of Gaping Maw.
This layer consisted of a vast continent covered in jungle surrounded by an endless ocean and brine flats. It was the realm of the demon lord Demogorgon, the Prince of Demons, one of the oldest and highest-ranking demons in the Abyss.
The jungle portion of the realm, known as the Screaming Jungle, was inhabited by troglodytes, lizardfolk, hezrou, yuan-ti, dinosaurs, dire apes, and barlguras. It held a two-way portal connecting to the Guttering Grove. Together with Slugbed and Shedaklah, this was one of the layers whose jungles were inhabited by threeb, a type of leech that was the main ingredient of the Quelaerel sauce.
The ocean portion was inhabited by aboleths, ixitxachitl, and krakens. Demogorgons lair was in the palace of Abysm two serpentine towers topped with skull-shaped minarets whose bulk extended deep underwater into dark caverns. The deepest of these caverns and the deepest trenches of the ocean were connected with the Shadowsea.
The entire layer was sometimes referred to by the names of its most prominent features, such as Abysm and Brine Flats.
This layer was a deep and perpetually dark ocean. It was the realm of the obyrith Dagon, Prince of the Darkened Depths, who ruled it from inside an amorphous slimy palace inhabited by giant sea worms and luminescent gliding creatures. The realm was connected to the deepest trenches of Gaping Maw.
The layer was inhabited mostly by wastriliths, who had free rein of the depths, as well as roaming gigantic half-alive shapeless clouds of discolored pollution that stripped the flesh from anything that entered them.
This layer was the realm of the demon lord Ilsidahur,
Demogorgon and Ilsidahur once managed to capture the eladrin paragon Gwynharwyf, but, due to their constant bickering, she was rescued and escaped, causing a strain in the demons relations and fear by Ilsidahur of an invasion of his realm by Demogorgon. In fact, some later sources did call this layer the Screaming Jungle,
Realm of Ulgurshek, who was not a demon lord but a far more ancient entity who had been created even before the Great Wheel was formed.
This layer had no ruler. It consisted of a series of interconnected realms of completely different characteristics.
Realm of Oublivae.
Realm of the demon lord Schthrruppasstt (sometimes known as Schtheraqpasstt), the Serpent Reborn, The layer was a sentient but insane chaotic whirling. It was put in that state when Schthrruppasstt attempted to merge his life essence with the plane in an attempt to gain ultimate power and immortality. The process succeeded, fusing the layer and its masters mind into one and making the Serpent Reborn indestructible to all but those with the ability to destroy the entire layer. However, merging with the chaotic plane ruined his sanity and the layer. He could still send out a minor fragment of his psyche that would reform in 111 days if destroyed elsewhere. Magic was nullified on the layer and anyone trapped there was at the mercy of an insane, living dimension. Most planar travelers knew of the danger of this realm and so the Mind of Evil was avoided at all costs.
This layer was a land of ruin and death, with sterile heaths, black forests, and desolate mountains filled with ruins and scattered tombs, inhabited by a variety of undead.
The demon lord Orcus, the Prince of Undeath, ruled Thanatos from his seat in the Everlost palace, a castle made of obsidian and bone located in a vast wasteland called Oblivions End. Orcus had been temporarily deposed of his post by the drow goddess Kiaransalee, who took control of the realm for a few centuries until Orcus returned and deposed her, forcing her to flee to the Demonweb.
Orcus maintained a second lair in the fortress city of Naratyr, the City of the Dead. It was a quiet, cold and mostly empty city (except for the occasional wandering undead) surrounded by an icy moat fed by the river Styx. The city used to be Kiaransalees winter capital, and was left deserted following the return of the layers original master. The inner walls of the central castle of bone were made of flesh and decorated with carpets made of hair.
Some sources counted this as layer 333.
This layer was a vast expanse of forests, shallow seas, and underground caverns, always covered in fog under a faintly lit sky. It was the realm of the demon lord Lupercio,
On rare occasions, the sun did shine feebly through the fog on the layer, revealing glimpses of majestic angelic castles on cloud tops, a possible attempt by the angels to take advantage of Lupercios slumber in order to convert the layer into a bastion of good.
Together with Gaping Maw and Shedaklah, this was one of the layers whose jungles were inhabited by threeb, a type of leech that was the main ingredient of the Quelaerel sauce.
Realm of the demon lord Azazel, Prince of Scapegoats.
Realm of Chemosh, god of the undead.
Lordship over this layer was contested.
This layer contained the realm of the demon lord Fraz-Urbluu, the Prince of Deception and demon lord of illusions.
275px|The Drooling Jungle, a forest near the periphery of Hollows Heart.
Fraz-Urbluus realm used to cover the entire layer, until the demon prince was imprisoned for over two centuries in the world of Oerth. Upon his return, he found the layer to have been destabilized, becoming little more than a featureless flat expanse of white dust under a starless black sky with very few structures scattered on it. Within a few decades of his return he had managed to rebuild part of his realm but, despite having accomplished recreating much of what existed, up to the size of a large continent, the demon lord required a legendary staff of power in order to rebuild the realm in its entirety. Without the aid of the staff, progress was slow and by the late 1480s DR most of the infinite plain remained nearly entirely featureless.
The demon lords lair was located at the center of the continent-sized reconstructed area, in the city of Zoragmelok, a circular walled city of adamantine walls and impossible architecture.
Realm of the obyrith Ugudenk the Squirming King.
This layer was the realm of Laogzed, patron god of troglodytes. Laogzeds personal lair was a cavern complex he constantly prowled searching for things to devour. Whatever he devoured would become one with the plane itself, and so the plains were used by other tanarri as a permanent dumping ground.
This layer had no ruler.
Realm of Eshebala,
A map of Shedaklah.
Also known as The Slime Pits, Demon Queen of Fungi.
The realm was a bubbling fetid swamp, covered with oozes, molds and slimes that formed strange organic shapes, Zuggmoys palace on the plane consisted of dozens of gigantic yellow and brown mushrooms, connected by bridges of shelf-fungi and surrounded by poisonous vapors and acidic puffballs.
Together with Gaping Maw and the Slugbed, this was one of the layers whose jungles were inhabited by threeb, a type of leech that was the main ingredient of the Quelaerel sauce.
Lordship over this layer, sometimes known as Rarandreth, was contested.
This layer had no ruler. It was a dark, windy, and phantasmagoric realm that contained floating dreams of evil gods of dead pantheons. These dreams were then slowly processed by the Abyss itself and then released on the Prime Material Plane in the form of loumara demons.
This devastated layer was eternally dark and inhabited by specters and shadows. It was the realm of the bugbear deities Skiggaret and Grankhul.
Lordship over this layer was contested.
This layer was constantly ravaged by lightning storms, torrential rain, and strong winds. It had vast forests of deadly plant life such as assassin vines, bloodthorns, ironmaws, and viper trees. It was the realm of Eltab, in .
During Eltabs absence, his balor lieutenants fought constantly for control of the layer. As a consequence of Eltabs summoning and imprisonment, fragments of the layer called demoncysts were transported to Northeastern Faerûn, where they lay buried and many remained undiscovered.
This layer had no ruler. It was a militaristic layer with iron roads and vast fetid swamps, with military encampments and barracks assembled on the shores of the river Styx. Most of the Tanarri armies departed to wage the Blood War in Gehenna from this layer. Three molydei patrolled the outskirts of the plane, looking for deserters and spies.
An almost entirely empty void, realm of the demon lord Yrsillar,
Realm of the demon lady Lynkhab, Lady of Regret.
This layer resembled a citadel on a margin of the river How Nai-ho, a branch of the river Styx. It was inhabited by manes and various types of demons. It was the realm of Tou Mu, goddess of the North Star, and Lu Yueh, god of epidemics.
This layer had no ruler. It was a smoke-filled realm with countless small fire pits where demons went to relax and smoke pipes of flesh, dung, and other foul materials.
Lordship of this layer was contested.
Realm of Hiddukel,
Lordship of this layer was contested.
This layer had been the realm of the demon lord Thralhavoc, who abandoned it to pursue other goals and left it with no ruler.
It was a frigid and sterile rocky plain filled with pinnacles and gorges, under a sky of red clouds and a constantly frosty air. The layer was the site of the Fortress of Indifference, also known as Taelac Mirrimbar, ruled by the nalfeshnee Tapheon.
Realm of Eldanoth the Bloodless Scion.
This layer had no ruler.
The layer was discovered by Xorna, a former githyanki slave of the armanites who managed to escape her captivity.
Gallenshu was once a lush land with over a dozen cities inhabited by varrangoins. A map-like painting of the layer from that time period was located in the fortress Overlook in The Wells of Darkness.
This layer was a bleak domain of poisonous fens and black, bottomless lakes previously ruled by the not-quite-dead obyrith lord Sertrous. Formerly a demon lord of parasites and crawling things, Sertrous came to be associated with snakes, and the more powerful he became, the more infested his abandoned home became with golothomas and other serpentine horrors.
This layer was entirely made of solid rock, hollowed out into a maze of tunnels and chambers. It was the realm of the gnome god Urdlen,
The layer was inhabited by gnome petitioners, manes, purple worms, hezrou, and umber hulks, who were all infected by a rotting fungal growth. This infectious disease was said to be the result of some past feud between Urdlen and Zuggtmoy.
The nalfeshnee lords of Woeful Escarand.
Also known as the Mountain of Woe, this was the realm of the Lords of Woe.
This layer had no ruler. ruled by the fallen trumpet archon Alusiel.
Ruled by Doresain The White Kingdom itself was an undead aristocracy run by creatures known as true ghouls. The civilized, if flesh-loving, nobility ran a cosmopolitan society with members such as abyssal ghouls, gnolls, and hyena-like maurezhi. Ghouls faithful to Doresain sometimes attempted to recreate lesser versions of the White Kingdom in the Prime Material Plane.
left|Captured adventurers offered as tribute to Yeenoghu in the Death Dells.
Also known as Yeenoghus Realm or the Seeping Woods, the Death Dells consisted of an endless hunting ground of barren hills and ravines, with a few structures and scattered signs of civilization. It was populated by gnolls, ghouls, and hyenas, and was ruled by Yeenoghu, the Gnoll Lord.
The ruler of this layer was unknown.
This layer was infested with adarus, whose corruption had turned it into a swamp of sticky mud. Petitioners sent there were tortured and dismembered for eternity.
Realm of Ahrimanes, Chief of the cacodemons.
A group of eladrin alongside a foo lion on Androlynne.
This layer was one of the least accessible in the Abyss. It was the realm of the obyrith Pale Night, and a prison for an army of eladrin from Arborea whom Pale Night trapped there to torture and kill. However, many good-aligned individuals, such as a ki-rin, foo creatures, moon dogs, hollyphants, and couatls, invaded Androlynne to fiercely defend the captive eladrin and to attempt to free them from Pale Night.
Because of the centuries of genuinely good influence on the plane, Androlynne became a surreally beautiful and alien place, with huge purple clouds that assumed strange shapes and lush vegetation.
This layer was home to ceaseless hurricanes, bloody beaches, and shipwrecks beyond counting. Guttlevetch was originally the realm of the demon lord Zuregurex, Lord of the Drowned. After a failed ploy by Zuregurex to invade the Gaping Maw, Demogorgon destroyed Guttlevetch, sinking its islands and turning the layers waters against its ruler. Zuregurex was forced to abandon Guttlevetch and flee to the Scalding Sea, but was rumored to secretly have returned to rebuild his realm.
This layer was the interior of a vast, ever-changing baroque palace. It was the realm of the vampire demigod Kanchelsis, who enjoyed constantly changing his halls, stairways, and gardens to terrorize visitors. The mansion held regular meetings of the vampiric brotherhood known as the Union of Eclipses, composed of elder vampires from different worlds.
This layer was ruled by the balor Tarnhem until his imprisonment and enslavement by his son Acererak. Afterwards, lordship of the layer was contested.
It was a volcanic layer with an acidic atmosphere, cut through by a worm-infested ravine. The river of worms breathed the acidic gas and exhaled breathable air. Tarnhems mansion was built along the ravine and remained occupied by his demonic servants who awaited his return.
This layer was the realm of the demon lord Siragle the Ineffable.
This layer had no ruler.
Together with the Caverns of the Skull, this layer was ruled by the goddess Kali, the Black Earth Mother. It was covered in blood-red tropical vegetation and was inhabited by several demons, as well as chaotic evil rakshasas. The layer also had an ocean  of blood from which sounds of screaming could be constantly heard. Numerous portals were scattered throughout the jungle and above the ocean, leading to several other layers.
This layer was an enormous tangle of pieces of masonry such as bridges, arches, beams, and pinnacles, held together by ropes and chains. It had once been the realm of the demon lord Pazuzu, who imprisoned Lamashtu, the Demon Queen of Monstrous Births, in the prison of Onstrakkers Nest, a building made of bones, earth, and stone within the enormous structure. Even though she was impaled by the buildings spire, Lamashtu took control of the layer and made it her realm.
This layer incorporated what had once been a part of Celestia, after it was invaded by an army of conquering demons. In order to contain the invasion, the angels detached a portion of the plane and cast it into the Abyss, where it merged with the existing layer of Occipitus. The demon lord Adimarchus, the Prince of Madness,
Occipitus had an organic appearance, with the ground made of a spongy flesh-like substance forests of bones-like columns reminiscent of massive rib-bones and plains of ulcers and cysts sometime still digesting fallen celestials. The layer had the form of a large basin with a mountain-sized skull in its center, and deadly plasms of fire and evil energy filled its sky. The layer contained many places still infused with the power of Celestia, causing fiends to stay away from them.
After Adimarchuss disappearance, the layer remained mostly abandoned and had a reputation of being a cursed place, even for demons. Any fiend who lingered there started suffering from madness and magical illnesses, as the demon lords madness kept leaking into the layer.
This layer inflicted madness on whoever visited it. It was said to be the nesting grounds of the chole dragons. It was not known whether "Melantholep" was the name of the layer itself or of some unknown demon prince who ruled over it.
This layer had no ruler.
This layer was the realm of the ogre and troll god Vaprak the Destroyer. The deity was said to live in a pitiful cave at the base of a cliff, and was, along with his followers, despised by giants and other inhabitants of the plane.
This layer was also known as the Stinking Realm. It was dominated with decay, filth, and oozes, and its inhabitants carried diseases and parasites. Together with Shedaklah, this layer was one of the realms of Juiblex, the Faceless Lord, and was connected with it by several portals.
Molor was inhabited by oozes, otyughs, and civilization-shunning demons. The only known settlement in the realm was the city of Thullgrime.
This layer was dominated by the Bloodsea, an ocean of poisonous blood dotted with hundreds of islands overgrown with monstrous tropical plants that only existed there. The very air was poisonous. It was the realm of the giant eight-armed marilith Shaktari, the Queen of Mariliths. While powerful mariliths ruled many of the islands, Shaktari spent most of the time at the bottom of the Bloodsea, which was connected to the river Styx.
The native creatures in the layer included rakshasa, yuan-ti, and eye-wings. The poisonous nature of the realm could be temporarily countered by drinking a naturally occurring fluid in the plane known as qlaari, or Shaktaris Ichor, which was said to taste like maple syrup.
An airless void, realm of Haagenti, Demon lord of alchemy and artifice. It was one of the few layers that was not connected to the Blood Rift.
This layer had no ruler. Similarly to the March of the Pierced Men, it was one of many layers where souls of dead mortals were sent to be tortured.
This layer was an infinite molten mass of constantly changing flesh and protoplasm. It was the realm of Dwiergus, the Chrysalis Prince.
Other demon lords created pool-like portals into the Fleshforges to fuel the creation of their own demons. Demogorgon held several such pools in the city of Lemoriax in Gaping Maw,
This icy layer was the realm of Aseroth, the Winter Warlock, who had formerly been an elemental prince that turned into a demon. It was predominantly a permafrost layer with an advancing glacier, inhabited by remorhazes, ice archons, and different types of demons. The extremely malevolent cold of the layer was said to be capable of freezing creatures thoughts and emotions.
There was a two-way portal connecting this realm with the para-elemental plane of ice, but activation of the portal required the destruction of a mortal soul.
Realm of Malcanthet,
Among the carefully built white buildings throughout the hills, Malcanthets seat of power was in the coastal city of Rivenheart, said to contain all possible pleasures and desires to tempt its visitors into relaxing. It was also home to the Radiant Sisters, Malcanthets own personal guards and loyal lilitu bards who protected her from would-be usurpers.
A swirling vortex of wind and flying rocks, this layer was the realm of the derro demigod Diinkarazan,
Also known as the True Paradise, this infinite garden-like pleasure palace was the realm of Socothbenoth
The Persuader ruled his realm from atop the Palace of Quivering Flesh, from where he had full sight of the gardens of Saturnalia and the white banks of the river Styx. The brass minarets of the realm contained the demon lords court and servants, who dwelt in endless seduction, false beauty, and deviancy.
The realm of Baphomet, the Horned King and Prince of Beasts. It was an infinite maze inhabited by minotaurs, ogres, and goristros. The obyrith Pale Night resided in the layer and retained control over a portion of it from within the Bone Castle.
This layer burned with a bright white flame that consumed a ruined city with strange architecture and geometry. It was the realm of Alzrius, Lord of Infernal Light, and was the native home of fire spiders.
This layer had no ruler.
Together with layer 500, this layer was ruled by the lesser goddess Kali,
Realm of Vucarik, Consort of Chains.
Lordship over this layer was disputed.
left|The horrors of Zionyn.
Realm of the Obyrith lord Obox-ob, Prince of Vermin. It was a vast and inhospitable vermin-infested land with oceans of thick resin.
A bottomless black void where victims fell until they died from dehydration, or the winds flayed the flesh from their bones. Certain types of magic were dampened, so while spells like fireball and lightning bolt functioned normally, feather fall and levitate did not. Although several portals led into this layer, there were no portals leading out.
This layer was transformed by Demogorgon into a flying stone-walled ship capable of navigating between planes. It was put under the command of the balor Straoth.
This layer had once been a neglected swamp with intermittent portals to the Nine Hells. When devils discovered this connection, they set up a colony in the poisonous swamp. Upon discovery of this invasion, Orcus and Juiblex combined forces to strengthen the poisonous nature of the plane and imbue it with necrotic energy, causing all iron and structures on the layer to decay and crumble, until all that was left was a tightly packed layer of rust and ruins, inhabited by undead and evil constructs. The portals to the Nine Hells remained since buried and unusable.
This layer was a vast desolation of canyons and rocky spires. It was inhabited by masses of rampaging demons and its maddened demon lord known as Rajzak. He was said to have once been a beautiful demon lord who was transformed into a bestial creature after a conflict with Grazzt. The Bastion of Hate was located on this layer.
A hot and humid forest of giant trees, rotting mulch, and swamps of boiling muck, centered around the Gorewood tree. The layer was the domain ruled by Aurnozci, the Caged Worm, who was its ruler and prisoner.