Lone Rock was a small island of little note located where the Dragon Reach met the Sea of Fallen Stars in the Vast.
Lone Rock was a wooded and mountainous island, known as a ship graveyard, surrounded by wrecks of endless naval vessels. The island itself was just half a mile long and a third of a mile across. One of its ends rose up above the Dragon Reach waters like a longhorn, carpeted with seabird nests.
A bare rocky island had no inhabitants apart from an endless number of seabirds and any creatures that tried in seabird guano that splattered the entirety of the island. Lone Rock had no known monster prowling its shores.
Lone Rocks name was given to the rocky outcropping by early navigators that used it to mark a dangerous area where any ship met its doom on the sea rocks, swept away by turbulence in the swells. Anchorage was nearly impossible, and the island historically was used as a form of punishment by the pirates of the Sea of Fallen Stars. Thieves and murderers were marooned on Lone Rock with no food or water to die slowly. In later years, Lone Rock was used by mages who used teleportation magic to stop over and rest away from civilization and prying eyes. Some spellcasters ended up using Long Rock as a prison.
Sometime circa the mid-14 century DR, the ship with Lionel Silverspeaks family of Ravens Bluff, Dragons Claw was bound to sail around the Lone Rock but was struck with a storm. The winds tossed Dragons Claw onto the Lone Rocks rocks. Lionel Silverspeak survived only because he missed the trip partying and carousing.
In the late 14 century DR, a strange sight was witnessed by a passing trade vessel from Tulbegh to Tsurlagol. A ship, completely made of glass (or some other translucent material), was stuck in the many rocks and wooden beams and planks surrounding the island. Its masts were broken, and hull broken. The crew was stated to had been elves or very thin and tall humans, adorned in strange ornate armor. The strange wreck got some renown and fast. The last people heard of it was when a pirate vessel called The Black Serpent sailed to the glass ships location from The Windrace.
Some believed that Lone Rock had a rich vein of gemstones somewhere on the island however, sages failed to agree upon what types of gems exactly.