Lushpool, known as the City of Shimmering Pools, was a city in Lapaliiya in southwest Faerûn in the mid–14th century DR.
It stood on the Lapal Way, by the mouth of Talar Bay in the sheltered lee of the Ithmong Peninsula, where it faced the Shining Sea.
In the Year of the Swords Oath, 1142 DR, the Coiled Cabal, a group of yuan-ti pureblood mages, awoke from centuries of somnolence and attempted to reconquer the Cities of the Seabreeze. They were opposed by over two dozen archmages of Lapaliiya and Tashluta, who fought first the yuan-ti, then each other as they vied for their own power. For a full season, in a conflict called the Rage of Wizards, they waged wild spell battles up and down the Tashtan Coast. By its end, the cities of Lapaliiya and the Tashalar had suffered gratuitous destruction, but not one wizard or yuan-ti had won a single crown. In the aftermath, the ruling houses of Sheirtalar and Lushpool formed a union in the Year of Glad Tidings, 1147 DR, and installed Haliim as ruler the first Overking of Lapaliiya.
In the Year of the Prince, 1357 DR, after four years of adventuring, Prince Royal Shaliim returned to Lushpool. Over the following decade, he fought countless thieves who came for the treasures hed brought back.
In the Year of the Unstrung Harp, 1371 DR, the aged Overking of Lapaliiya died of heartstop and his son, Shaliim, was crowned in his place, moving to Sheirtalar to rule.
Lushpool was built upon a hill cut with seven great terraces. The bottom terrace joined the wharfs and comprised the wharf district. The uppermost level, at the very peak of the hill, was the exclusive domain of the Prince Royal of Lapaliiya and held the Palace of the Prince. All over the city were splendid hanging gardens and pools draped in mosses, and the city was famed for its beauty.
The nominal ruler of Lushpool was also the Prince Royal, that is, the heir to the Overking of Lapaliiya. In the mid-1300s DR, this was the former adventurer Shaliim Wyrmslayer.
However, everyday matters of government were handled by a council of satraps. Throughout their history, the Lushpan satraps were perforce reclusive, remaining cloistered within their asharlans, issuing decrees in writing via servants (human but often tainted ones). They were only seen masked, and when they wished to address the citizens or give an audience, they used magic to speak through the mouths of chained female slaves.
Lushpool had been officially ruled by the Prince Royal since the union of the ruling houses of Sheirtalar and Lushpool in 1147 DR. In theory, the Overking ruled over Lushpool via the Prince Royal. However, in practice, to enact a new policy, an Overking needed the support of the representative of Lushpool on the Grand Council and typically had to negotiate with the Lushpan council of satraps. Lushpool was the third most politically powerful city in Lapaliiya after Sheirtalar and Ithmong.
The civic deity of Lushpool was Eldath, Goddess of Singing Waters.
The town of Mierskar lying just to the south was a vassal of Lushpool.
Lushpool was a large city of 17,265 people.
Several rare species of freshwater fish were bred in the citys pools. Their roe were delicacies all around Faerûn and the citys primary export, bringing Lushpool most of its riches. These fish, otherwise practically unknown to humans, were actually native to Lake Lemas beside the Black Jungles. The Hazimtar yuan-ti introduced the initial breeding stock to the pools.
The Eselemaa yuan-ti also traded illicit goods through Lushpool. The yuan-ti in Oeble in the Border Kingdoms trafficked slaves through Lushpool south to the Black Jungles. In turn, urns of addictive mordayn powder manufactured in the Black Jungles were traded north to Oeble and distributed around Faerûn. The Coiled Cabal, with the consent of the Eselemaa, also traded through the port of Lushpool to Tharsult and, through other merchants, to the western lands of Faerûn.
The Baldovan family of mercenaries and merchants from Narruth in the Lake of Steam maintained businesses and homes in cities including Lushpool, as part of the trade with Lapaliiya around 1370 DR.
Beneath the Palace of the Prince there was a two-way portal to the western shore of Lake Lemas, amongst the ruins of Ssdathinssatath in Serpentes. Passage required a key, namely a snakeskin this could be shed or still on the body, from a snake or a serpentfolk, alive or dead. Naturally yuan-ti could pass with ease.