Malydren was a city in the Underdark and the main capital of the race of the ixzan, the subterranean cousins of the ixitxachitl and the center of the worship of their god Ilxendren.
Very little was known of the Founding of Malydren in the year 602 DR, perhaps because the ixzans rarely communicate with outsiders. It is known that there were other ixzan cities in the lake in ancient times, but these are only ruins now. Humanoid scholars usually assume that the founding of Malydren was associated with the Revelation of the Demonray and that other ixzan settlements were destroyed or abandoned at this time.
It lay near the center of the Lake of Radiant Mists, between Calimshan and Tethyr, directly beneath the Rift of Dhalnadar over the Malydas Atoll, one of the isles of the lake.
The city was built in the Malydas Atoll, centered around the Ziggurat of the Demonray.
The ruling council of Malydren was called the Xendreth, and was made up of the most powerful mages and priests. In practice it was dominated by the mutant and vampiric members, such as Phiaqiv and Zekaqux, simply because of their experience and might.
The  most infamous inhabitants were Phiaqiv and Zekaqux. All other inhabitants were Ixzans, there were usually no members of any other species present.
The majority of Ixzans lived within the clergy, or in small cave clusters.
The culture of the ixzans would be utterly incomprehensible to any humanoid, assuming any were allowed to visit the city.
The priests of Ilxendren were responsible for indoctrination of the young and the discipline of the adults.
The city was self contained and does not normally conduct trade with any other species. If humanoids were allowed to visit the city, they might have been lodged temporarily on one of the islands of the atoll.
Malydren was known to produce coral carvings and nets as well as a variety of seafood.
The defenses of the city were built around the slops of the atoll reinforced with stone barriers where necessary. Great care was taken to ensure a steady flow of fresh water though the city using sluices and gates. A magically maintained ice sheet covered the surface of the lake and prevents access to the city beneath. Their army was known as the Fangs of the Xendreth and was used for defence and law keeping.
The city was built around the Ziggurat of the Demonray, which was dedicated to the worship of their god Ilxendren.