Mintarn was an island in the Sea of Swords.
The island lay 400 miles (640 km) southwest of Waterdeep.
Mintarn was a popular safe haven for those fleeing the authorities as well as neutral ground for conflicting parties to come to accord. This beautiful island asked no questions and turned no one away.
Pirates and other fugitives from justice held business transactions in Mintarn. Legendary taverns and festhalls were famous for both their food and service, and the high level of inherent danger found within.
Tarnheel Embuirhan ruled Mintarn, beginning around 1357 DR. His skill as a warrior was reputed to be a major contributing factor to his rise to power. Though technically a tyrant, his rule was open-minded and he preferred to let much of the island govern itself. While he ended the frequent conflicts with neighbouring Orlumbor which had been raising the hackles of the Lords Alliance, he also would not hesitate to use brutal force to restore order or keep pirates in check.
Tarnheel styled himself as a tyrant and people referred to him as His Tyrancy. While he held absolute power, he preferred to reign with a light hand, letting his people get on with their day-to-day lives as they were wont to do. He was aided by his comrades Bharandas Zhan and Szentarr Ravin.
The tradition of tyrannies lasted long after Tarnheel was gone. Every five or six years, a new tyrant would rise and take control, but they always maintained Mintarns status quo as a free port. Around 1489 DR, during the Tyranny of Dragons, Bloeth Embuirhan was tyrant. She was supposed to be the great-granddaughter of a former tyrant, probably Tarnheel. She ruled the island through its most prosperous days.
thumb|The location of Mintarn relative to 255x255px
Mintarns history was dominated by the lengths that its people would go to to placate Hoondarrh, the dragon that lived on the island of Skadaurak to the north. They bought their survival with massive annual tributes.
Mintarn couldnt afford to turn away any potential income and therefore welcomed all comers, whether foreign dignitaries looking for neutral negotiation ground, or wanted criminals on the lam. Mintarn also gained a reputation for exporting skilled mercenaries, but those who fought them knew Mintarn itself wasnt responsible for any violence perpetrated and so never faced any retribution.
Luskan once attempted to raid Mintarn but it was very costly for them, as the Luskan navy was no match for Mintarns veteran mercenaries and sailors.
Dagult Neverember invested heavily in Mintarn, starting a ship-building business and some training centres as well as investing in the White Sails mercenary company, which grew into the most successful such company on the island. When Waterdeep lost too many ships hunting pirates, Neverember used this leverage and his position as Open Lord to buy a new mercenary Navy from Mintarn and, while he was at it, soldiers to police and protect his New Neverwinter effort.
Unfortunately, Hoondarrh took note of the influx of wealth to Mintarn and destroyed two of Castle Mintarns towers when he demanded an increase to his tribute.
When Neverember was replaced as Open Lord, the other Lords decided to do away with mercenaries and build their own fleet once more. Neverember too fired the mercenaries in Neverwinter to replace them with actual Neverwintan soldiers.
Without the extra coin from those lucrative contracts, Mintarn began to struggle to gather the bigger tribute that Hoondarrh wanted.
Rumor has it that a small number of Ironstar dwarves have a secret cave hold on Mintarn.
The twostring musical instrument came from Mintarn.
Mintarn lager, was a type of golden-colored alcoholic drink exported to the Sword Coast. One of the places of note that served this lager was the Blushing Mermaid of Baldurs Gate. Another alcohol of note was Mintarn green wine, rarely seen outside the island itself and the Bargewright Inn. The wine was described to be an acquired taste and was served cold. Almond brandy, known to be cheaper version of the same drink from the Moonshae, were also distilled and exported from Mintarn.
Mabadann oysters were a popular import for the residents of Mintarn, especially its merfolk population. The oysters were imported in massive water-filled barrels all the way from the Shining Sea where the waters from the Lake of Steam warmed the waters. These delicacies were consumed raw with a squeeze of lemon.
Inhabitants of Mintarn referred to themselves as Tarnians, but never Mintarnians.
*Castle Mintarn the seat of power on the island.
*Cove of the Queen a hidden harbor temple of Umberlee manned by pirates.
*Mintarn Mountain home of a dwarven population of the island and remnants of Clan Ironstar.
* A forgotten temple stood within an underwater cave beneath the island, unknown to those on the surface,
Halls of the High KingWaterdeepLost Crown of NeverwinterStorm over NeverwinterMurder in Baldurs GateDragons of Stormwreck IsleBefore the Storm
FRMintarn
CategoryIslands
CategoryLocations in the Sea of Swords
CategoryLocations in West Faerûn
CategoryLocations in Faerûn
CategoryLocations on Toril
CategoryLocations
ku1ixkcf3xi4mo7xv1ucjujc8aa4kci