Monksblade was a village in Cormyr known for its fine food and accommodation, making it a popular stop for people traveling to Sembia.
Monksblade was located along the Way of the Manticore between Dreamers Rock and Battlerise, as well as being north of Gorthin.
Monksblade got its name from the fact that it was built on the foundations of four ruined monasteries Mother Chaunteas House, the Towers of War, the Ladys House, and the House of the Seas, which all coexisted with each other at one point.
Unfortunately, thieving mages, bandits, lizardmen raiders from the Vast Swamp, and Sembian infiltrators depopulated the buildings until they stood empty and eventually fell to ruin. Eventually, at the urging of the king, who needed an eastern watchpost but lacked the resources to create a fort, homesteaders resettled the site, creating the village.
Coastal settlements drew business away over time but the village remained attractive owing to its picturesque location, with the boughs of huge trees shading overgrown gardens.
 Lost Knights Dance  The village well, around which the original monasteries were built. The name was given after the villages founding.
 Wendeiras Wondery  An oddments shop that also sold a variety of minor magical items for high prices.
 The Old Oyster  A quality restaurant that sold fine seafood and a good selection of wines and ales as well as standard fare.
 Hunting the Knight  A tavern popular with retired adventurers. Volo claimed it as his favorite tavern.
 The Firedagger Inn  A luxurious inn noted for its staff and the magical blade that had to be banished every so often lest it burn the place down.
 Temple Ruins  Two miles to the east, on a hill in a field, was the ruin of a Netherese temple of Tyche. The temple contained a portal to Blister and was haunted by a Netherese ghost known as the Looking Lady, who was an attraction in Monksblade until 1372 DR when she began attacking the residents.
* Norry Waywocket
* Coobert Draftworth
* Wendeira
CategoryVillages
CategorySettlements
CategoryLocations in Cormyr
CategoryLocations in Interior Faerûn
CategoryLocations in Faerûn
CategoryLocations on Toril
CategoryLocations
CategoryLocations on the Way of the Manticore
CategoryLocations in the Eastern Heartlands
b3owfgf4m6v4j5ku4wxowbjgz6jch60