Mount Nar was a massive mountain in the Firward Mountains of Narfell. Its perpetually snowcapped peak was visible across most of that realm.
The huge, rugged mountain with its bluish glaciers was a dominant feature across the plains of Narfell. The mountain was clearly visible as far away as NJast, and as of the mid&ndash15 century DR, the ruins on the western side of the mountain were visible from Bildoobaris.
Mount Nars glaciers dominated its western and northern slopes
In ancient times, the capital of the Nar kingdom of Jastaath was located atop Mount Nar, and their powerful demonbinders altered the weather to make the mountain warm and hospitable. However, after the kingdom was abandoned, the mountain became covered in snow and ice, and the ruins of Jastaath became lost beneath the snows. The kingdom came to be remembered only in archaic texts and local legends.
As of the mid-to-late 14 century DR, the mountain was the domain of Kryonar, a white dragon dracolich who murdered anyone who approached the peak. Kryonar was so feared that no Nars dared to scale the mountain.
Beginning in the mid&ndash15 century DR, the ruins atop the mountain had been claimed by Branimern Rythil, who slew Kryonar and sought to uncover the ancient secrets of Jastaath to enable her to conquer the surrounding lands. She constructed for herself a towering stronghold amidst the old ruins high on the western slope, and beginning around the , this structure was visible from Bildoobaris.
* Jastaath Castle, a massive ruined fortress on the western side of the mountain near the peak.
* Kryonars caverns, a natural cavern on the north side of the mountain near Jastaath Castle that was once the lair of Kryonar. The cavern was only accessible via tunnels through a glacier. Following Kryonars destruction, the cavern became home to a number of monsters loyal to Branimern Rythil, including a number of cyclopses.
During the mid-to-late 14 century DR, Kryonar was the most notable inhabitant of Mount Nar.
During the late 15 century DR, Branimern Rythil and her fiendish and fey minions were the most notable inhabitants. This included the formidable fomorian known as Hughan.