Chessenta
Mourktar was an independent city-state, that later became the capital of Threskel, one of the Old Empires of east Faerûn. It was previously considered by many to be a part of the confederation of Chessenta, though that belief was not shared by its native residents.
Mourktar was ruled by its own king, a member of the dynasty that dated back to the 9 century DR when the city freed itself from the grip of imperialistic Unther.
Despite the fact some outlanders believed Mourktar to be a vassal-state to the confederation of Chessenta, its strategic location away from other city-states effectively granted the kingdom its own independence. In fact, Mourktar exerted control over the city of Thamor, whose founders originated from the coastal city.
As of the mid–14 century, the people of Mourktar still abided by the Chessentan Code of Enlil.
Mourktar maintained an adversarial relationship with the sahuagin kingdom of Aleaxtis. They considered Mordulkin to be their rivals, especially when it came to trade and commerce. 
The people of Mourktar had much in common with the residents of Messemprar, the Untheric city to the south.
Worship of Assuran, the Lord of the Three Thunders was very strong in Mourktar.
Mourktar was also home to a Cult of the Dragon cell that dated back to the 11 century DR, whose members served the blue dracolich Alasklerbanbastos, also known as the Great Bone Wyrm. While many of these cultists operated out of the Black Lords Cloak temple of Bane, their true alignment lay with the church of Tiamat in Unther.
The city housed a grand port that greatly benefited the many farmers, herders, and miners of the region. Mourktars close proximity to Bezantur in Thay and Sultim in Murghôm granted it an edge over Mordulkin in the west.
As of the mid–14 century DR, Mourktar maintained an army of 500 soldiers, and mobilized four times as many conscripts from the citys populace.
Mourktar broke free from the rule of Unther in the .
In the , the red dragon Tchazzar ascended divinity after the Rage of Dragons devastated the Realms. In a frantic effort to garner more power for himself, Alasklerbanbastos sought out lichdom by means of the Dragon Cult in Mourktar.
During the , King Theris announced to his subjects that he would soon be dying. As he had no heir to whom he could bequeath his kingdom, Theris called for a grand tournament of athletic prowess at the Fields of Pryollus at the base of Mount Thulbane, While the soldier of Akanax Helyos came close to victory, no clear victor arose as the winner.
In truth the tournament was sabotaged by Kabbarath Telthaug, that Imperceptor of Bane that installed himself as the Regent of Mourktar until the , when rule of the city was forcible shared with three younger blue dragons, by decree of Alasklerbanbastos, ruler of Threskel. Regent Kabbarath ignored the will of the dragon-king until Mourktar was devastated by the vampiric dragon Jaxanaedegor ands several "lesser" dracoliches. The leaders of Mourktar responded with continued offerings and oblations as acts of acquiescence.
During the Untheric Crusade of the 1370s DR, templars of Bane from his temple in Mourktar came to the defense of Unther, the nation form which the city had previously declared its freedom. The Black Lords soldiers marched into Messemprar and aided in the citys defense against the onslaught of Mulhorand.
Around that same time, sea trade from Mourktar was interrupted by domestic troubles in nearby Unther, pirate activity and even the monstrous sahuagin from the underground city of Vahaxtyl.
Temples
* Amphitheater of First Thunder, a grand arena dedicated to Assuran.
* Black Lords Cloak, the largest temple of Bane in all of Faerûn.
Mourktar was home to a great many mercenaries and merchants, all of whom regularly benefited when conflicts arose in the surrounding lands.