Myth Drannor, formerly known as the city of Cormanthor (), the City of Song,
For hundreds of years after the Weeping War, Myth Drannor languished as fiend-infested ruins. After hundreds of years the city was reclaimed by the elves of Evermeet in the late 14 century DR. It enjoyed a century-long renaissance, before falling to ruin once more.
The stone towers of Myth Drannor were predominantly tall and graceful in appearance, though some of those used by wizards took the shape of fantastic creatures or forms found in nature. The "naturally-grown" structures of wood and plant life, formed by the OacilQuevan ritual of complement, were among the most breath-taking in all the Realms. 
Cobbled streets wound through the city, running in-between the ground-level buildings of elven design and picturesque glades and city parks. Embedded within the roads were markers for the levitation pillars, shafts of magical energy that could lift an individual to the skybridges and elegant treetop dwellings set within the canopy of Cormanthor.
There was an expansive set of Dwarven Dungeons that ran underneath Myth Drannor, that was inter-connected with many of the subterranean dwellings that were built by the citys non-elven residents.
Magic
As per its name, Myth Drannor partly defined by its protective mythal that was raised under the guidance and leadership of the legendary spellcaster Mythanthar. While the mythals made the lives of its citizens more safe and convenient during its existence, and even held secret powers known only to its creators. Following its destruction, the mythal leaked magical energy that greatly affected the ruins and the surrounding forest of Cormanthor, in regions that came to be referred to as "Edgelands". 
Magical enhancements were prevalent throughout Myth Drannor to the point of being excessive. The citys skyways were illuminated by subtle magic fields of light resembling that reflected by the moon and spellfields that functioned for its citizens amusement. The villas of elven nobles eschewed the use of "normal" glass, preferring theurglass that could be altered by mere touch.
The excessive use of High magic and portals in the city, combined with the actual mythal itself, weakened the "planar fabric" of the region, granting easier access to other planes of existence and crystal spheres. Most notable among these were the Feywild, the lower planes, the demiplane of Dread, along with the planet Krynn. Myth Drannan portals linked the city to other destinations such as the portal nexus referred to as Abarats folly, located within his namesake tower in the Moonsea, the warriors gate connected to the kingdom of Delimbiyran, and most importantly, the Gate Halls nexus that link the castles of the all the great elven kingdoms. The Silversgate connected Myth Drannor to Eaerlann, while the Honorsgate led to the Forest of Mir in Tethyr.
Technology
The dwarves of the House of Gems established a complex network of underground pumps, called Lifespring Wells, that provided its citizens with a reliable source of fresh water, and many of the citys beautiful fountains guarded by naiads. Among other wonders of technology created by the citys dwarves was the sophisticated air vent systems that ran through all the levels of the Dwarven Dungeons and the House of Gems itself, called the Channels of the Earthborn Wind the many winding walkways around the Castle Cormanthor and Windrider Glade as well as the ingenious "liquid fire", used to illuminate the Dwarven Dungeons and Elven Catacombs and other  city districts.
Due to the magic of its mythal, Myth Drannor enjoyed exceptionally pleasant weather. It remained free from extreme heat or cold, and was immune to natural disasters such as storms and forest fires.
Myth Drannor was one of four old communities of Cormanthyr, alongside the Elven Court, Semberholme, and the Tangled Trees.
Myth Drannor was constructed around two tributaries that came together to form Oacenths Stream, which flowed south through Tilvers Dam to Glyryrryls pool in the southern end of the city. and the Shrine of Mystra.
As of the late 15 century DR, two notable landmarks stood in stark contrast to the restored City of Song the mold-covered fortress known as the Citadel of Fungi, and the Shadowfell-corrupted Demon Estate of the Feyri.
Myth Drannor was built in such a way that its layout resembled the head of a battleaxe, with the blade pointed to the west.
The two approximate halves were linked by the large curved bridges that spanned the streams that ran through the city in a north-south direction.
Throughout most of its history, Myth Drannor and all of Cormanthyr was ruled by a single coronal. They were aided in their duties by the arms-major and spell-major, the empires greatest warrior and mage respectively,
The authority of these leaders was each embodied in one of the three Elfblades, the Rulers Blade, the Warblade, and the Artblade.
Composed of the heads of Myth Drannors elven noble houses, the Nobles Council met regularly to discuss any issues or laws that concerned them. They met with the coronal at least once a year to offer their voice and advice to the coronals rule.
For a scant 50 years Myth Drannor was governed by the Council of Twelve, though it was little more than a collection of squabbling, entitled bureaucrats who acted only in self-interest.
The laws of Myth Drannor followed the "Code of the People", simple and elegant ideal that a crime against one of its citizens was a crime against all. While the full scope of the code was over 100 stanzas long, the final words eloquently described the heart of its intent
The code was enforced either by the Coronal or an elf from one of the citys noble houses. The punishment varied on a case-by-case basis.
Beyond its namesake mythal, Myth Drannor owed its defense to the great Cormanthyrian army of AkhVelahr along with its many great and powerful mages of the AkhFaer. 
Service in the military was a life-long dedication, symbolized by the permanent tattoos inscribed upon a soldier or mages hands and forearms.
Throughout its history, Myth Drannor enjoyed bolstered protection from the War Wizards of Cormyr along with contingents of the kingdoms Purple Dragons.
Myth Drannans enjoyed robust trade with the residents of the land that came to be known as Sembia, along with a strong friendship the folks of the Dalelands. While elves from the city of Cormanthor first granted permission for men to settle the Dales, it was the Dalesfolk who came to the citys aid during its hour of need in the 8 century DR.
Within the city, guilds were formed with the goal of sharing information and knowledge between the various races of its citizenry.
When the city was reformed some 700 years later, Myth Drannor renewed its bonds of camaraderie with the free folk of the Dales, along with those in the neighboring kingdom of Cormyr.
While Myth Drannor was the exemplification of tolerance between the races, there were some cultural traditions that separated the TelQuessir from non-elven citizens. For example, many elves only spoke to others of their own kind unless they were specifically addressed, the exception being moon elves and their outgoing nature. Noble-born elves were always granted right-of-way, even in the case of personal flight, and were never to be look at in the eyes, unless they did so first.thumb|The city of Myth Drannor peering from the mists of Cormanthor.
One of the festivals of note that were celebrated in Myth Drannor was the Midsummer Firemeet, legendary for the lavish celebrations and  exquisite silken banners and decorations draped across Windrider Glade.
Myth Drannor was founded as Cormanthor in the  by the Coronal Kahvoerm Irithyl. For over four thousand years, the city prospered with little incident.
Coronal Eltargrim Irithyl decided that if Cormanthyr was to survive, its people must make peace with the other races, so Eltargrim set about organizing the elf wizards to create a mythal.
The Opening marked the beginning of the Golden Age of Myth Drannor, when the city prospered and many races flourished amid its towers. Many demihuman groups came to the city during this time, including dwarves, gnomes, and halflings. Myth Drannor reached a peak of influence and culture in the , and all the races living within flourished under a sense of unity.
Following the death of Eltargrim in the , the city was left without a leader. By Midsummer in the , the Council of Twelve was in control of Cormanthyr and Myth Drannor. This council soon forgot the dreams of the Coronals, focusing on actions that favored their own families and influence. With Myth Drannor failing as a capital, the next 40 years saw Cormanthyr dissolve into city-states rife with divisive in-fighting that poisoned the citys council and the guilds.
In the , the Trio Nefarious entered the northern woods, attacking some eladrin outposts and moving closer to the capital, and starting the Weeping War. The elves of the city were aided in its defense by the men of the Dalelands and some Cormyrean War Wizards.
Myth Drannors former residents scattered across the Realms. Some elves found new homes in the land of Tethyr by the grace of Strohm II.
The fall of Myth Drannor began an event that came to be known as the Retreat – the great migration of elves from the continent of Faerûn to the isle of Evermeet. Among those that were known to have returned to the Green Isle were the elven houses of Durothil, Silverspear, Symbaern, Nightstar, and Nierdre.
thumb|right|280px|An osyluth and a hamatula in the ruins of Myth Drannor.
For over six centuries, the elves kept the place hidden and sealed for the most part, refusing to let any into the ruins save dragons, whom the elves hoped would guard the city against interlopers as they would their own lairs The city became a legend, one of the most dangerous adventuring sites in all of Faerûn.
During the 13 century DR, the deity Lathander appeared before a group of his clergy that came to be known as the Seekers of the Dawn. He tasked them with the formation of a Lathanderite temple within the ruins of Myth Drannor and bestowed upon them the Dawnstone to aid them in their endeavor.
In the same year that the elves Retreat reached its apex,
A mere two years later, in the , the alhoons had manipulated the church of Bane into opening a portal to Avernus within the ruins in an effort to set ther devils upon their phaerimm enemies. The Banites quickly erected magical wards to contain the fields, hoping that adventurers would slay some of their number.
thumb|713x713px|Castle Cormanthor during the Cult of the Dragon occupation.
Over the next ten years, the followers of Bane spread rumors about the great riches that could be obtained from within Myth Drannor. in search of wealth and glory. Notable among these groups were the Company of the Catlash, and the Masked Marauders. Other groups were more benevolent in their motivations. The Knights of the Shadow Sword made regular patrols in the city, seeking to rid it of its evil denizens, while the Knights of Myth Drannor relocated there in the years prior to their retirement.
In the , an avatar of Moander marched on Myth Drannor from Yûlash while it was prevented from reaching its destination, the destruction it caused formed a path in the forest called Moanders Road.
A few months later in Marpenoth, the entity known as Tyranthraxus briefly took over the city by means of a pool of radiance and established itself within the temple of Labelas Enoreth. With the assistance of a disguised Elminster, a group of adventurers found passage through Myth Drannors barriers and drove the possessing spirit out of the ruined city. 
The following month in Uktar, the Knights of Myth Drannor managed to close the portal established by the followers of Bane a decade before. Unfortunately, scores of devils remained within the ruins.
Twelve years after that, in the , They had discovered a newly formed pool of radiance inside Castle Cormanthor and wished to bathe the dracolich Pelendralaar in its waters to grant him more power. Once again, the malevolent plans of those seeking to exploit Myth Drannor were foiled by adventurers of the Realms.
In the , the return of the Netherese to Faerûn led to the expedient destruction of the phaerimm that dwelled within the citys ruins. The returned arcanists erected a shadowshell that prevented their escape and nearly eradicated the aberrations from within the ruins.
Two years later, in the , the forces of the daemonfey managed a feat that so many others could not – they conquered the ruined city by force. In turn, Seiveril Miritar and the Elven Crusade returned to Faerûn from Evermeet to reclaim Myth Drannor for the TelQuessir from the fiendish plague. Seiverils daughter Ilsevele became the new coronal and efforts to restore the city began. The elves of the region began to clear the ruins of Myth Drannor, in order to build the city anew.
By the following year, Myth Drannor became a flourishing city-state that garnered influence over several Moonsea and Dalelands settlements.
After over a century of tension and conflict, war broke out in the Eastern Heartlands. The Netherese enclave of Thultanthar took to the air directly over Myth Drannor as the Netherese shades sought to take control over its mythal. During the struggle, Thultanthar crashed down upon Myth Drannor, leveling both of the cities upon impact. Coronal Ilsevele managed to survive the catastrophe, and her subjects fled to the formerly abandoned settlement of Semberholme.
thumb|Myth Drannors mythal, cleansed by 260x260px
At its height, Myth Drannor represented the peak of elven civilization and craftsmanship. It served as a beacon for the free folks of Faerûn, particularly the elves, dwarves, and humans, demonstrating they could peacefully live alongside one another. 
Throughout the years it lay in ruin, leaders from several city-states sought recapture its splendor and beauty. Cities such as Ascalhorn and Silverymoon were seen by some as resonances of the City of Song. Some even referred to Silverymoon as "Myth Drannor of the North".
Relics that survived the destruction of Myth Drannor were highly prized throughout the Realms. The Old Dragon Down in Archenbridge earned some renown for selling these types of items, while a single bottle of wine recovered from the city was considered priceless by the proprietor of Thaolas Wineshop in Leuthilspar on the island of Evermeet. Some relics known to have survived the citys fall included a number of enchanted harps, the Black Book of Beshaba, Gaulguths battleaxe Heartcleaver, Arbanes swords of agility, and the legendary baneblades of Demron forged to commemorate the unity forged among the citys residents, among others.  
Countless other types of magic items traced their origins back to the city, including the gauntlets of the valorous, daggers of defiance, and of course the legendary moonblades.
According to Volothamp Geddarm, Myth Drannor was one of the possible locations in the Realms where the well of spells could appear.
Seeing as how many great magical items traced their history back to Myth Drannor, many rumors surrounding misplaced or long-lost relics pointed in the direction of the fabled city. As of the mid–14 century DR it was rumored at the Wyvern Crown of Cormyr rest somewhere within its ruins. 
The city comprised four distinct districts, and a vast underground network referred to as the Dwarven Dungeons.
thumb|right|300px|The entrance to the Speculum in Sheshyrinnam.
Cormanthor, also known as the "Old City", was the oldest ward that housed the citys austere civil buildings and estates of the noble elven houses. Notable sites included
* Castle Cormanthor, the once-majestic citadel around which the city was built, beginning with the Rule Tower that rose from the ground when the Rulers Blade was pulled from the ground of Cormanthor.
* House of Song, the fortress-temple dedicated to the deity Oghma.
* Onaglym, the House of Gems that was appropriated by the citys dwarves and the citys jewelers guild.
* Ursplindaar, the great fortified library.
* Glim-Gardens of the House Ammath, the enchanted gardens that healed the travelers bodies and spirits, and the exuberant Ammath family mansion.
* Jerroks Concert Hall, once grand hall, enchanted for the perfect acoustics. The hall was turned into a cursed and dangerous ruin by a mis-fired spell during the last days of the Weeping War.
Sheshyrinnam, or the "Temple Ward", was nearly as old as Cormanthor, housing many elven citizens and the temples of the Seldarine.
* Nightingale Court, the plaza that housed the Temple of Mystra and the enchanted monument called the  Ear of Myth Drannor.
* Shaundakuls Throne, the holy house dedicated to the Rider of the Winds was considered to be the greatest of his faith in all the Realms.
* Windrider Glade was the park dedicated to the ideal of peace and diversity of religion, that housed an open-air Temple of Shaundakul and multiple other shrines.
* The Speculum, the guildhall of the citys wizards guild and a repository of arcane knowledge, that was founded by Alaghar of the Horns.
** The Speculum Grounds surrounding the guildhall had numerous sites such as the Orrery that allowed teleportation throughout the city.
* Windsong Tower, the three-spired school of sorcery that housed one set of the Nether Scrolls in the form of the QuessArTeranthvar.
* Temple of Sehanine Moonbow, an open air temple to the Goddess of Moonlight.
Kerradunath, also known as the "Lake Ward", was home to the many businesses and guildhalls built around the tranquil Glyrryls pool.
* Hall of the Open Book, guildhall for the Lorekeepers Alliance.
* The Irithlium, the legendary arcane academy that was constructed over a span of 300 years.
Dlabraddath, the "Alliance Ward", was constructed after the Opening in order to accommodate the non-elven residents that made their home in Myth Drannor.
* Halls of the Beast-Tamers, the subterranean hall of the Guild of Naturalists located on the east side of the city.
* The Incanistaeum, the magical school that was overseen by the Seven Wizards of Myth Drannor.
* Lovers Glade, a step-encircled pool that served as an open temple to the goddess Sune.
Landmarks outside the districts of Myth Drannor included the Polyandrium, the north-most graveyard that contained numerous mausoleums and the Tower of Bones, and the Dwarven Dungeons, an underground complex that housed much of the citys dwarven population.
In the centuries following the citys destruction, various areas were left nearly unrecognizable from their previous state. The Sullymarsh swamp grew out of the beautiful public park and estate grounds of the Omberdawn noble family,
Landmarks that could be found within the ruins of Myth Drannor included the Fog Tree, an especially deadly cluster or tangled trees formed by the residual magic in the city. and the Well of the Fallen, the site at which Sambranna Highstar wrote the introduction to her treatise on the holy books of the Faerûnian pantheon. In the years after the citys fall some new structures were still being erected as well, such as Dawnspire, the Lathanderite that was built by the Seekers of the Dawn.
thumb|Resettlement of Myth Drannor.
During the height of its splendor, Myth Drannor was home to some of the most famous and knowledgeable of the Realms residents. The Seven Wizards who taught at the citys school of magic had a lasting legacy that influenced practitioners of the Art for centuries to follow.
The city attracted artists, scholars craftspeople from all across the Realms. A person was just as likely to find a learned sage or world-traveled bard as they were to encounter an artificer of fantastic magic items.
In the Ruins
Following its destruction in the 8 century DR, Myth Drannor became overrun by many monstrous, aberrant, and horrific creatures. Entities known as wizshades haunted the citys once-majestic wizard-towers, Interestingly enough, the citys ruins was the location for the first sightings of the rarely-seen fang dragons.
Also in the ruins were undead horrors rarely encountered by mortals – magic-wielding illithids known as alhoons, burnbones, and an army bone nagas. Not all the undead in ruined Myth Drannor were malevolent however, as the baelnorn remained as vigilant sentries watching over the tombs of their deceased kin.
The more aberrant denizens included the horrific phaerimm that escaped from beneath Anauroch, and a single deepspawn that took control of the ruined Speculum.
Through the centuries of ruin devils and other fiends run rampant through Myth Drannor. One contingent of baatezu once fell under the command of the fallen solar Malkizid, while another was led by the pit fiend Aglaeroch.