Settlement
Myth Lharast, also referred to as Myth Lhahast, was a demiplane that existed beyond the world of Toril. For over three centuries, the mythal-bearing city existed as the center of Selûnite worship within Amn in the Lands of Intrigue.
Myth Lharast appeared as a spectral city, featuring splendid walls and seven Star Spires that glistened in the moonlight.
As a demiplane, it was largely only accessible on nights where the moon of Selûne was full.
According to ancient accounts, for former location of Myth Lharast would be somewhere approximately  west of the Gem Road at the bend of the Splendarrllur river in Amn.
The city once housed numerous temples and businesses each dedicated to the Moonmaiden.
Elven craftspeople from Myth Lharast utilized distinct designs in their work that featured distinct angular geometry.
The citys mythal was imbued with "symbols of power" that actually attracted faithful of Selûne and any other moon-worshipers. It was later altered by one of its creators to also attract benevolent lycanthropes.
It was one of the few mythals to be crafted by ntelquess, or non-elven people.
Myth Lharast was founded in the , as a place where zealous Selûnites could worship independently, free from the pantheonic orthodoxy of Minsorran, a realm that embraced the unified worship of Selûne, Shar, Mystra, and Lathander. Some years later, the mythal was altered by Syri Mhaal to attract benevolent lycanthropes, and it became more of a refuge for the moon-worshiping shapechangers. Mhaal sought to rally the lycanthrope army to conquer for himself the Shoon Imperium. 
Unfortunately the benevolence and serenity of its founding did not endure. In the , a terrible battle broke out in the city between Syri and his lycanthropes, and the malevolent wizards of the Cowled Conjurers, who allied themselves with demiliches and gargoyles.
Selûne herself interceded in the conflict. As the evil invaders took control of Myth Lharast, bolts of lightning shot down from the moon, and Selûne stripped the city from the face of Faerûn and transferred it into a demiplane. Other scholars postulated that this shift was caused by an altering of the citys mythal.
Syri Mhaal and his lycanthropes remained trapped with Myth Lharast, as did their descendants in the generations that followed. Selûnes true faithful sought to seize it back in their goddess name. 
Accounts and descriptions of the city were subsequently lost over time. Only devout Selûnite priests could glean its true location in the Realms.
Some blamed the fall of Myth Lharast on its original founders, saying they were punished for straying too far from true Selûnite teachings.
* Daramin, a sorcerer and contemporary of Abarat Alabaster.
* Syri Mhaal, one of the crafters of the citys mythal.