Nedeheim (meaning "Down-home" in the Giant language) was an ancient kingdom of stone giants,
This kingdom was located north of Shanatar and south of the Cloud Peaks. It stood beneath Mount Dodild, part of the Giants Run Mountains, within a high mountain cavern that extended to a depth of  miles. Spread out through a series of lava tubes and caves.
Cairnheim was a monarchial kingdom, ruled by a king and his council of Dodforerir, or "Death Chiefs." Both the king and the Dodforerir were all cairns, a form of undead stone giant. Each of the Dodforerir, raised from the dead by the king, had in life had served as a clan chieftain.
The government did not tolerate trespass into their land, particularly among dwarves.
Being of the kingdoms that made up the ancient empire of Ostoria, and stairs through its peaks, as well as tremendous halls beneath its peaks.
It was one of the giant kingdoms that warred with the ancient dragon kingdoms during the Dawn Age It eventually came into a conflict with the dwarves of High Shanatar, a conflict known as the Giant Wars, that listed sixty years. Finally falling in -5350 DR, having lost half its population and reduced to scattered clanholds, whose remaining inhabitants fled into the Upperdark
In -160 DR, a cairn by the title of Dodkong came to to the site of the fallen kingdom with the crown of Obadai, the legendary crown of Faerûns first stone giant, and gathered its stone giants clans together, refounding the kingdom under the name of Cairnheim. 
Over time this kingdom grew slowly, until by 1372 DR it had a sizeable population of 546 living within it. In addition, more than a dozen minor clanholds of stone giants and hill giants acknowledged the Dodkong as their ruler. Several large tribes of hobgoblins and orcs would rally around him if asked to do so. And nearby human communities offered him tribute. Around this time some communities within the Underdark began to fear that Cairnheim might be preparing themselves to expand beyond their borders, noting a growing number of barrowes roaming the Giants Run Mountains.