New Velar (formerly Harrowdale Town or Harrowdale) was the capital and largest settlement of Harrowdale in the Dalelands.
The town began as Harrowdale Town (or simply Harrowdale), but, in 1428 DR, the town was renamed New Velar, to mark the formal alliance between the Council of Seven Burghers and Myth Drannor.
As of 1368 DR, Marco Volo noted that (then) Harrowdale Town had kept more old buildings than any other settlement in the Dalelands.
The Council of Seven Burghers, the governing council of Harrowdale, was run from the Council Hall in New Velar as of 1368 DR.
Law enforcement was provided by the town Watch, which, as of 1368 DR, consisted of thirty "constables", equipped with ring mail, a crossbow, and a short sword. The Watch Barracks in the town also provided a court and a jail, although, in 1368 DR, there were no prisoners.
Under Ellarian Dawnhorn of the town watch, as of 1368 DR, merchants felt safe in leaving doors open at any time, knowing that sufficient protection would be provided. The last six thieves operating in (then) Harrowdale Town were all apprehended and killed.
 Council Hall
 As of 1368 DR, this acted as the meeting point for the Council of Seven Burghers, the ruling council of Harrowdale.
 Harrow Market
 As of 1368 DR, a muddy market with a fishy aroma, charging vendor fees of 4 sp per stall or cart per day.
 Harrow Point Light
 As of 1368 DR, a small lighthouse on Harrow Point, which was used by sailors on the Dragon Reach, and, at this time, was manned by Hesketh.
 Two Rocks
 As of 1368 DR, an island in the center of the (then) Harrowdale Town harbor, and thought by many to contain pirates gold.
 Watch Barracks
 As of 1368 DR, this provided a court and a jail (although the jail was empty in 1368 DR). At this time it was at the junction of Melurk Street and Lancegallop Lane, and had catapults on the roof that could be used to defend the harbor.
From a population of 1085 in 1368 DR, the chaos in neighboring Scardale is thought to have played a part in the boom in population of (then) Harrowdale Town to 4206 in 1372 DR.