Puplic park and villa
Omberdawn villa was the familial estate of the Omberdawn family, as well as a magnificent public park located in the Cormanthor district of Myth Drannor. Following the destruction of the city, the grounds became a swamp that was known as Sullymarsh.
The structure of Omberdawn villa comprised two multi-level structures, one built upon the ground and another  above at tree-level. The ground level building itself was three stories tall, with two subterranean levels.
Sullymarsh was connected to the lower level of the Dwarven Dungeons in the north-west area of the park. The pathway of winding walkways to the north let to the once-serene Glim-Gardens. Speculum Grounds laid to Sullymarshs south-west. 
King Pujiks ormyrr tribe resided by one of the spawn pools, an extension of the pool of radiance.
A massive patch of healing blueglow moss could be found in the north-east of the marsh.
Sullymarsh was one of the locations of Myth Drannor that had beautiful spires of the citys Orrery constructed. The Spinning Spire of Sullymarsh laid destroyed in the Weeping War and was inactive circa 1369 DR.
Architects of Myth Drannor used their engineering and magic skills to turn this marsh into a magnificent public park. The park surrounded a beautiful lake that was maintained via a complex system of waterways constructed by the dwarves of Myth Drannor and protected by water spirits, naiads. Intricately-carved bridges were constructed to allow the citizens of the city to cross the waterways.
By 1369 DR the nature and the failure of the citys waterways reverted Sullymarsh back to its natural state, a marsh.
During the Cult of the Dragon attempt to corrupt the citys mythal and the pool of radiance. A group of adventurers from Phlan encountered the Pujiks tribe and subsequently defeated him, freeing the ormyrr of the Cults leaders corrupting influence. After the corruption was thwarted, the pool of radiances spawning pools receded away from Sullymarsh. The ormyrr Samaj and Flem offered to trade with the rescuers to aid them in their quest.
Before the fall of Myth Drannor, the villa housed one of the citys most respected noble elven houses. Lord Avourel Omberdawn commanded the hippogriff wing of the AkhVelahrs Wing & Horn flying cavalry, while Lady Fieryat Omberdawn led the pegasi riders.
In 1369 DR, a tribe of ormyrr claimed Sullymarsh as their home, led by the king Pujik, enthralled by Kya Mordrayn of the occupying forces of the Cult of the Dragon.
Sullymarsh was a hunting ground for gargoyles and margoyles that resided in the ruins of the city. The resurgent pool of radiance and the Cults necromancers also flooded the area with the undead, some under the Cults control, and some completely unleashed.
A ghost of Anorrweyn Evensong, a cleric of Mystra could be encountered in the park she favored in life.