Oreme was the capital of the Sarrukh empire of Isstosseffifil (the Land of the Lost Sea), remaining after the collapse of the empire in –33,800 DR.
Oreme was located  east of Weathercote Wood, on the edge of the sands of the Frozen Sea. The ruins were often being buried for decades at a time by sandstorms.
Many of the citys deepest catacombs connected directly to the Buried Realms. However, a barrier similar to the Sharn Wall was constructed by the ruins lich rulers that prevented any phaerimm from entering the city.
thumb|left|Location of Oreme in Relation to the Anauroch Desert in 1374 DR
Oreme was incredibly ancient, predating the rise of Netheril.
In around , the sarrukh created the Nether Scrolls within this city.
Following the destruction of their kingdom, sixty sarrukh retreated into lichdom and would spend the ongoing centuries ruling the ruins of Oreme in turns while the others hibernated.
By 1375 DR, mainly ruins and the circular rubble of its great towers remained on the surface, but many of its subterranean structures were intact.
The descendants of the asabi who once loyally served the sarrukh continued to inhabit the ruins long after the empire had fallen. They believed it was their duty to protect the lich kings of Oreme and were willing to wage war for them if the need arose, though they were largely left to rule themselves.
The asabi, as well as the stingtail who inhabited the ruins, organized themselves into tribal mercenary companies. Each was ruled by a chieftain who served on a Council of Chiefs that answered only to King Oreme. These tribes clung to their fallen empires ancient traditions, such as the worship of Merrshaulk. If there was ever a prolonged period of peace, they would go out and capture a troglodyte or lizardfolk to sacrifice to Merrshaulk. 
If King Oreme ever felt that the population of the tribes was getting excessive, some would be dispatched out into Faerûn to fend for themselves and provide the kingdom reports on activity in the outside world.
The sixty sarrukh liches that ruled over the kingdom inhabited an area known as the Crypt of the Dreaming Lizards. A contingency spell was cast in order to assure that they would all awaken if either the city was in serious danger or the lich currently presiding as ruler was destroyed or incapacitated.
Over the centuries many myths circulated regarding Oreme. Some claimed it was the first Netherese enclave or the capital of a prehistoric kingdom, while others told of it being home to a savage djinn.