OrmpéThe spelling of Ompré appears in Shining South page 123, and is repeated only in Darkvision, where Ompre is referred to only once. However, it is referred to as the sister city of Assur and Vaelan in both appearances. Given the similar context, it is assumed that the Ompre in Darkvision is the same as the one in Shining South, and the one in Shining South appears to be a misspelling of Ormpé, as it is employed as if the city had been referred to previously, and shares all the same letters, down to the accent on the last "e". Thus, this article is written following the conclusion that Ompré and Ormpé refer to the same city, perhaps because of a typo. The prevalent spelling is used again in Forgotten Realms Campaign Guide, the latest source, and thus Ormpé is preferred as the spelling in this article. was a city along the coast of the Golden Water. It was the fastest growing city in the region during the late 14 century DR.
In , Ormpé was a rustic mining community.
Of all the cities in the Shining Lands, only Ormpé had large slum areas. The largest of them, the Quarter of No Hope, resided outside the walls.
The gemstone chaka was native to Ormpé. Gnomes were a common sight in the city. So was the Finglefall chaka. The field glass was an invention of the gnomes of the city.
Most of the people in the Quarter of No Hope were migrant grain workers, though some tried to obtain mining jobs, which paid better. However, the Gemstone chaka preferred to hire dwarven miners and gnomish gemcutters, having come to an agreement with the Finglefall chaka whoever wanted to work on the famous Curna emeralds needed to come to an agreement with at least one of those chakas. However, several chakas had made their fortunes with the sale of gemstones by .
A lot of scholars lodged at the city on the way to use the Library of Curna.
Ormpé was another fishing village that grew into a trade hub before it was conquered by beholder princes in the . These beholders were defeated by demons come from the Curna Mountains in the . The leader of the demons was a nasty ghour demon. when the forces of Var, Durpar and Estagund defeated the demons and forced their leader into flight it was rumoured he took up with the local hill giants.
An influx of people started around , doubling the population by . The influx of people had gone well beyond even what the local ruling council expected Ormpé developed a rather large slum. By , it was expected things would turn ugly if the squalor was left unaddressed.
Ormpé had fallen into the Golden Water by  DR.
Though the city had started as merely the location for ironworks, the population doubled between 1365 and 1367 5000 of them lived in slums by the later date. Ormpè had a large population of demihumans, particularly dwarves and gnomes, with many halflings as well, by that year.
Albeit the city continued to grow, it had only 4500 inhabitants in .