Orofin, formerly known as Orolin the City of Magicians, was an oasis-city in Anauroch that dated back to the ancient realm of Asram.
The great fortress of Orofin stood in the center of the city, out from which extended four long canals lined with acacia and other fruit-bearing trees. These waterways divided the city into four distinct quarters, connecting at a circular canal that marked the borders of the city. Each of the four quarters were connected by great granite bridges decorated with mosaics in the shape of diamonds.
A system of pumps directed water from the canals out into the fields that encircled the city. By 1357&nbspDR the water of these canals was poisoned and quite harmful if drank.
Orofin was located on the southern region of Anauroch known as the Sword, just east of the Saiyaddar hunting grounds and south of the Wall of Fallen Djinn mountains.
The city sat within a wide, grass-covered vale that sat within a natural ridge formation.
During the golden years of Asram, mages could be solicited for hire on nearly any street of the city. They would often offer protection for expeditions into the desert in search of valuable natural minerals like copper, gold, and zinc.
In the , Orofin was the site of a great battle between the allied tribes of the Bedine and the formidable Zhentilar army of the Moonsea. The Bedine emerged victorious, stopping the campaign of conquest the Zhents had waged in order to gain strategic control over the Anauroch desert.
Some time over the next decade or so, a band of Talontar blightlords received a vision from the Mistress of Disease, telling them that Orofin would be the site of the next great plague that would fall upon Faerûn.
Sometime in the century after Thultanthar returned to Toril, and the empire of Netheril was reformed, Orofin was rebuilt as a home to those Bedine that gave up the nomadic lifestyle of their forebears. These city-dwelling inhabitants of Anauroch began referring to themselves as the Netherese people.
Legend states that some great ancient cache of riches lay somewhere buried within the city, though nothing of note has ever been recovered.
The fortress of Orofin was a grand tower surrounded by a spacious courtyard.
As of 1370s DR Orofin was overrun by bands of roaming ghouls. These monstrosities were the risen Zhent soldiers that perished during their battle with the Bedine, brought back in undeath by the devotees of Talona.
Following its reconstruction some time before the late 1470s DR, the city was home to ethnic Bedine who referred to themselves as Netherese. Although they were quite rare, some krinths and asabis could be found living within the city.