Palischuk, sometimes spelled PalishchukIn R.A. Salvatores works, Promise of the Witch-King, Road of the Patriarch, and The Bloodstone Lands, the name of the settlement is spelled as Palishchuk, contrary to how it is spelled in all other sources, even in maps in The Bloodstone Lands., was a city in the northeastern corner of Vaasa. It was populated predominantly by half-orcs.
The city was a fortress town rebuilt in the mid-to-late 14 century DR by half-orcs It was made of up mostly shorter buildings and was well-lit at night by torchlight. It was ringed by a wall with main gates facing north and south.
The city sat on a wide, rocky plain east of the ruins of Castle Perilous.
The largest major community in eastern Vaasa, the city lay upon the northern trade routes that connected Maur-Eturo and the south with Ironspur, Ishe, and Frohms Rest in the far north and The Reach trail to the west.
Palischuck made a great effort upon its refounding in the mid-to-late 14 century DR to build trade relations with the civilized peoples of Vaasa and Damara, and largely succeeded. By the late 15 century DR, it was the most important trade hub in Vaasa.
A few years prior to the rise of Zhengyi the Witch-King in the , the city was attacked by the black dragon Urshula, but the town survived with relatively minor scars. 
Palischuk was ruined by the depredations of the Witch-King during the Vaasan War, but was subsequently claimed and rebuilt by the half-orcs of the surrounding areas as a place to call their own.
By the , after Zhengyi had been defeated, Palischuks half-orc inhabitants succeeded in befriending other nearby settlements. They traded with the  Vaasan Gate, Darmshall, and neighboring dwarven communities harmoniously, but the dwarves and humans would continue to deal with them cautiously for the next decade.
In the , Palischuk became the epicenter of a territorial dispute between King Gareth Dragonsbane of Damara, who openly desired to claim Vaasa as his own, and Bregan Daerthe when Jarlaxle Baenre and Artemis Entreri claimed Vaasa as the Kingdom of Daerthe. The Palischukians sided with King Gareth, opening the door for him to ultimately annex Vaasa. Palischuk was absorbed into his Kingdom of Bloodstone sometime in the late 14 century DR. 
center|A map of Palischuk circa 1368 DR.
The city was subsequently conquered by the Warlock Knights of Vaasa sometime in the 1460s DR. As of the , Palischuk had grown to a city of over 10,000, the great majority of whom were still half-orcs. Their mercantile businesses served as the economic engine that underlay much of Vaasas economy, and they had become much more accepted as a vital part of Vaasan society. At this time, the city was ruled by Knight-Vindicator Mansard Kanaoth, the only half-orc on the Ironfell Council of the Warlock Knights.
Most folk in Palischuck kept to themselves. The majority of its residents were half-orc or orc. In the late 15 century DR, just 1 in 5 of the local population was human. It was not uncommon for residents to insert Orcish words into their sentences when speaking in Common or Damaran.
As of 1479 DR, several half-orcs of Palischuk were practicing Zhengyian blood magic.
14 century DR
*Arrayan Faylin
*Olgerkhan
*Wingham
15 century DR
*Mansard Kanaoth
*Weird Winghams Wacky Weapon Wielders, a traveling caravan run by Wingham, was based here and settled outside the south gate a few times each year.
*Weary Wanderer This was the largest tavern in the town as of the mid-to-late 14 century DR.