Panchengjuduohuh (
thumb|right|225px|A map of Panchengjuduohuh.
Panchengjuduohuh was situated at the mouth of the River Hidden, a subterranean tributary of the Fenghsintzu River. The river began at a massive fountain-like jet at the center of a lake on which Panchengjuduohuh had its docks. By river, the city was protected by the leopard-shaped Living Gate, a magical gateway. The Living Gate controlled who could enter the city, and only allowed entrance to followers of Mad Monkey, the Black Leopard Cult, Lung Jua, or any enemies of Lung Jua. 
The interior of the cave that contained Panchengjuduohuh was dome-shaped and lit by bright magical lights in the stone wall. The city itself consisted of many old buildings that appeared as ruins. Each building was nothing more than a series of walls and doors. The doors could be opened as portals to other parts of Toril, other worlds of the material plane, and the outer planes. Each door would stay open for 10 hours, before closing itself with a slam. The destinations of the portals were unpredictable and prone to changing. They were also invisible from the other side, but would become visible if the spell dimension door was cast on them.
Panchengjuduohuh was protected by the Ministry of Planar Adventures, a part of the Celestial Bureaucracy.
In , the pagoda temple of the Black Leopard Cult was sent deep into the earth from Durkon by the forces of Wo Can, who used a talisman of pure good. It sank down through the earth and arrived in Panchengjuduohuh.
By , the pagoda was the base of operations for Lung Jua. Lung Jua used the magic of the city to drain the life force of his followers into a large statue of a demon. This left the portals of Panchengjuduohuh in an inert state, where they would connect only to other doors in the city.  Lung Juas plan was to finally inhabit the statue himself, and ascend to ultimate power. His plan was countered by students of Mad Monkey, who had been sent up the River Hidden to stop him. The epic battle that followed threatened to destroy Panchengjuduohuh.