Pazar was a city in the kingdom of Bakar, abandoned after the river Athis dried out. The Star of Aga-Pelar was secreted away in the Temple of Eilish in the city, used to trap the efreet Khalitharius.
Pazar was constructed on an island within the River Athis. The white rock of the island was excavated as the city grew, exposing more limestone to the flow of the river. Entire blocks of the city had begun to sink by the time the city fathers decided to use powerful spells to reinforce the foundations when the river dried and the city was abandoned, these spells eventually faltered, leading to the entire city being swallowed up into the empty spaces of the limestone.
Around the late 3 century DR, Princess Sithal Al-Husn of Pazar was married to Athis Al-Din of Akhir, but she was kidnapped on her wedding night by Habrauk Al-Nirin of the Al-Alisk clan. This unleashed a blood feud that lasted for five generations, until by the year  DR, the bloodlines of Pazar, Akhir, and the Al-Alisk clan were all extinguished both by the fighting and the Curse of Amun-Re.Marteks final preparations involved spiriting away the city of Akhir and the Crypt of Al-Alisk to a subdimensional bubble, and they were complete no sooner than 370 DR. Thus, the feud mustve finished sometime before that year and started 65-110 years before then.
The last administrator to leave, Kalif Maniozimus, had a statue to himself erected on top of the Temple of Eilish.
After Khalitharius rampaged through Raurin with the Malatath, he was stopped by the archmage Martek. The wizard created a lead box to use as the efreets prison, and set the Star of Aga-Pelar, a gem of inestimable beauty, to function as a stopper. However, the prison would only hold for a thousand years. Vizier Martek secreted the prison in the Temple of Eilish, and made sure only the most determined could release the efreet by placing mighty magic to guard the prison.
By using the Star of Aga-Pelar as a stopper for the prison and prophesizing the need for the gem later on, Martek sought to ensure that adventurers would release the efreet a thousand years later in the future. The wizard was positive Khalitharius would resume the rampage rather than return to their home plane, thus leaving themselves vulnerable to Martek returning as well to use their full power in order to bind them for good.
In , adventurers employed by Aman Al-Raqib removed the Star of Aga-Pelar, accidentally releasing Khalitharius.
The only structure of note visible in the city as of the mid-14 century DR was the statue of Maniozimus, half-buried to its chest in sand, visible from  away. It held a tablet, where it was written that the city had once been great. The structure under the statue was the Temple of Eilish, which had actually sunk into the ground after the drying of the Athis.