Pelleors Prairie, sometimes called the Prairie of Pelleor, was a large grassland located in the Backlands of the Western Heartlands.
The Prairie was a warm, dry, and windy plain of tall grasses. Both water and shelter were rare on the open grassland. 
The name "Pelleors Prairie" was given to the grasslands between the Battle of Bones to the south and the Marsh of Chelimber and the Shaeradim to the north. It was bounded to the east by the Anauroch desert and to the west by the Serpents Tail Stream. 
The Hill of Lost Souls dominated the southeastern reaches of the prairieland, and the soil near the mountain was more volcanic than elsewhere on the prairie.
The prairie was home to a wide variety of vegetation, including an incredible number of unique types of grass Wildflowers bloomed in the summer and autumn, creating seas of vibrant colors across the normally green and tan plains. bison-gourd, water globe, camel tree, and silver tree. Dangerous plants included razor grass, squid jail, hooded monk,
The prairie was home to many types of animals, including prairie dogs, bison, wild horses, ants, rabbits, and snakes (including giant snakes as well as venomous dead grass snakes and reed snakes). 
Monstrous fauna of the prairie included ankhegs&mdashnotably lava ankhegs found near the Hill of Lost Souls Additionally, rocs from the Greycloak Hills and Sunset Mountains were known to hunt on the prairie, as were green dragons from the Forest of Wyrms.
Pelleors Prairie had a mild climate, generally experiencing only short winters beginning in Nightal with any lingering snow melted by Ches. The plains most often experienced sunny and dry weather, meaning that sun sickness and wildfires could be sources of concern year-round, especially during the summer. Temperatures on the prairieland ranged from about  at the hottest to  at their coldest, and the area received about  of rain annually, much of which was delivered by savage thunderstorms. These were the result of the mixing of hot desert air from the Anauroch, which arrived usually in Mirtul to herald the beginning of spring, with moist air from the Marsh of Chelimber and the High Moor. These conditions created massive and awe-inspiring thunderclouds that could be seen for miles. 
Wildfires sparked by lightning strikes and fed by the regions winds were one of the greatest hazards of the prairie such that local druids had been known to alter the weather to bring rain if they believed the danger of a catastrophic fire to be too high.
In the time of ancient Netheril, this region was the site of fertile farmlands.
Pelleors Prairie was named in honor of Pelleor the Wanderer, a ghost said to have been a soldier who died at the Battle of Bones who eternally wandered the region trying to find the comrades who left him behind as they retreated.
In the mid-to-late 14 century DR, the druids of the region observed that the Anauroch desert was slowly expanding and encroaching on the prairieland. They began investigating whether this expansion was natural or magical.
Some settlers reported that a hill would occasionally "come alive" and move of its own accord with sufficient speed to destroy their homes. It was unknown whether these "rolling hills" were moved by magic or were perhaps some kind of creature, potentially a large earth elemental or a massive subterranean turtle.
The most notable landmark was the Hill of Lost Souls, a dormant volcano that sat in the southeast of the prairie.
There were no notable permanent settlements on the Prairie itself, but Drawn Swords and Yarthrain lay near its southeastern border.
Pelleors Prairie was home to a druid circle that maintained the land and monitored the safety and actions of visitors as well as of the occasional caravans that crossed the plains.
Most humanoid inhabitants of the prairie dwelt in the west and north, putting distance between themselves and the Anauroch to the east and the Battle of Bones to the south. Life was harsh and resources were scarce&mdashparticularly water&mdashthus it was somewhat rare to find a settlement of more than one family. Homes were usually made of sod, with some living in structures of wood where it could be found or simply in tents where nothing better was available.
The Prairie was also home to prides of wemics. Individual prides were sometimes no bigger than a mated pair and their cubs. The prides dwelt in the north of the region, and each carved out territory for hunting but also engaged in some small-scale farming.
A near mythical inhabitant of the Prairie was the Great White Bison, a spectral creature said to be the "leader" of all bison in the region.
* Mrowl, a wise wemic who was leader of the Rambrowrl pride in the mid-to-late 14 century DR.
* Pheszeltan, the Hierophant Druid in charge of the prairie in the mid-to-late 14 century DR.
* Tharnn Greenwinter, a half-elf druid active in the region in the mid-to-late 14 century DR.