The Pirate Isles were a collection of rocky islands that dotted the Sea of Fallen Stars and were inhabited by pirates. There were fifteen named islands but around sixty in total. The islands that comprised Prespur were not included in the Pirate Isles, despite their proximity.
The general makeup of the islands was mountainous terrain with high rocky cliffs. This meant that there were not a lot of ports in the Pirate Isles.
As of 1479 DR, due to the continued shrinking of the Sea of Fallen Stars in the century after the Spellplague, most of the Pirate Isles had become a single large island named Pirate Isle.
thumb|A hand-drawn map of the Pirate Isles.|380x380px
Dragonisle
 Dragonisle was the largest isle. The huge Earthspur was located here. The main harbor was the settlement of Immurks Hold.
Alphar Isle
 Alphar was full of pirate holds, home to around 5,000 pirates. 
Bulta
 All trees and animals were half their normal size on Bulta.
Fangrocks
 The Fangrocks were a cluster of natural reefs exposed only during low tide that covered a circle ten miles wide.
Hawks Isle
 Hawks Isle was a pleasant, fruit-filled island on which a plague had left its natives horribly deformed.
Ilthan
 Ilthan was another pirate hold, though the northern end of the island was full of cyclopskin shepherds.
Kelthann
 Kelthann was a common smugglers trading point.
Lith
 Lith had a dangerous reputation. Spelljammers landed here, observed as meteors by witnesses.
Lurath
 Around 20 square miles (52 sq km), Lurath was enclosed by high cliffs, and sea caves that held time portals.
Mirg Isle
 Mirg Isle was a pirate hold once the stronghold of Xenz, an ally of Zhentil Keep.
Oresk
 Oresk was the third strongest of the pirate holds in the isles, ruled by Azla.
Paldir
 Paldir was a mountainous isle full of ex-pirates, and had 1000-foot-tall (305 meters) stone carvings of human-like heads.
Sarr
 Sarr was a tiny island. It was mostly ignored and the only structure here was a lighthouse. 
Sumbar
 Sumbar was the location of the powerful and mysterious Sumbar Oracle. It was treacherous due to the reefs that surrounded it.
Tan
 Tan appeared as a smoking volcano and was avoided. It was home to Eshcaz, a huge red dragon.
Telfar
 Telfar had the benefit of a natural harbor on its west coast, but was prone to whirlpools that were dangerous to shipping.
Ulgars Isle
 Ulgars Isle was haunted by the vampire Ulgar the Undying.