The Harbor Ward of Port Nyanzaru housed the majority of citys docks, including those used by its merchant princes. It was a busy place where ships were loaded and unloaded, allowing for goods to flow in and out of the port.
The Harbor Ward lay along the harbor on the northside of the city. The Ward sat between the Merchants Ward to the west and the Market Ward to the east. A network of caves, said to contain an old temple to Umberlee, lay beneath the streets of the ward.
thumb|350px|A view of the harbor.
The harbor itself was built to be highly defensible against pirates, and featured a defensive chain that could be raised to block entrance or exit to the harbor. The harbors lighthouse that could be used to send smoke signals which could be seen all across the Bay of Chult.
The Dock Ward bustled with dinosaurs and dockhands ready to help load and unload ships, notably with the aid of dinosaur-powered cranes,While the map of Port Nyzanzaru provided with the Tomb of Annihilation adventure places the Royal Docks on the western end of the Harbor Ward, they are described in the text as being on the eastern end. Between the Royal Docks and the public docks was a drydock and the Warehouse District.
During heavy rains, runoff from the ravine of Malars Throat would stream into the city and empty into the harbor, often carrying with it baskets, dead animals, and sometimes an unlucky person.
Fort NyanzaruThe citys sea keep protected the harbor and housed a mechanism that allowed city officials to control its entrance.
Harbormasters OfficeThis building housed the offices of Port Nyanzarus Harbormaster, which was Zindar as of the late 15 century DR.
Warehouse DistrictRows of waterways allowed dinosaurs to draw ships directly to their respective warehouses for easy loading or unloading of cargo.
DocksKnown to be much more convenient than the docks of Tiryki Anchorage thanks to the dockhands and dinosaurs ready to help with cargo, the docks of Port Nyanzaru were also known to be heavily policed, and visitors were subject to many inspections.
Dry dock Not used for shipbuilding, but rather for dinosaurs to drag ships ashore to be repaired, patched, or cleaned of barnacles.
Lighthouse The fires of this tower illuminated the way for ships sailing around Chult and could be seen for miles along the coast.
Na Nbuso, the Great King This statue was erected in the late 15 century DR and depicted a mythic Chultan king adorned in full royal dress.
Royal Docks Used exclusively by Port Nyanzarus merchant princes or their guests (including ambassadors and influential foreign merchants).
Serpents Coil This secret smugglers tunnel could be accessed via an abandoned building at the eastern edge of the ward, and led to Tiryki Anchorage outside the wall.
The docks were often filled with incoming visitors and treasure hunters seeking guides, as well as thieves and con artists looking to take advantage of them. On occasion, when brigands or mercenaries put into port, the docks could also become a dangerous place.
The Chultan druid and guide Qawasha would sometimes spend his Summer days at the docks, greeting visitors and providing a trustworthy welcome to Chult.