century DR map of Port Castigliar.
Port Castigliar () was a small settlement in Chult, tucked away in a rarely visited part of Refuge Bay.The Jungles of Chult, page 26, says Port Castigliar lies "in a little-visited part of Refuge Bay", but the accompanying map places it another, unnamed bay further north, near Mezro. The Forgotten Realms Campaign Setting 3rd edition map places it in the same location. It appears that Refuge Bay is considered to encompass both bays.Complicating matters, the map in the novel The Ring of Winter, while placing Port Castigliar in Refuge Bay, shows it east of Mezro by a walk of about ten days, but places Mezro more inland. The settlements namesake, Castigliar was a wealthy nobleman from Scardale and uncle of Ilyber Kitcher, the explorer who named and settled this plot of beach.
thumb|A map of Chult marking the site of Port Castigliar.
In the mid–1360s DR, lacking a dock or any place to moor a ship or boat of any size, it was a port in name only. The settlement itself consisted only of seven tin huts and a well-stocked supply depot along an open beach. There were also two vegetable plots and a graveyard. The graveyard was said to be more densely populated than the lands around it for up to 5 miles (8 kilometers). It was noted for being one of the few Chultan settlements to maintain a graveyard. 
It was a perfect place to land in Chult without being noticed, such as by agents of the Triceratops Society and other groups based in more sizeable Chultan ports.
Port Castigliar was infamous for its foul hot, and muggy weather with frequent rains. Visitors from afar could barely feel raid due to their clothes being damp from perspiration and air humidity.
In the mid–1360s DR, the supply depot was owned and managed by Ibn Engaruka, aided by his son Inyanga Engaruka. They sold all kinds of supplies, but no maps or magical items, though Ibn could advise on jungle trekking. Up to six bearers could also be hired here for 5 sp/tenday and a Tabaxi guide for 1 gp/tenday.
The tin huts could be rented for two sp/tenday by travelers, with up to three usually available. They were small and searingly hot in the day but offered shelter against the rain and a place to put animals at night.
Magic was scarce in Port Castigliar. The closest thing to a wizard in the Port were enchanted gems placed under the general stores floorboards. The gems kept the building cool, making it a pleasant oasis in the muggy heat of the jungle, and it kept the food from spoiling. These gems, like other types of magic, were bartered from local and visiting spellcasters.
Port Castigliars food sources were varied, from local wildlife to imported items from Faerûn. A species of large green snakes that on occasion slithered into Castigliars home was one of the local foods. It was known for being delicious when prepared correctly. Fish was a local staple, as well as sweet and fleshy koko-yams, plantains, and strong alcoholic palm wine.
Locals of the Lord had an interesting cure for a hangover and upset stomach. It appeared to be a black loaf of bread, adult human fists size. The food smelled and tasted heavily of fish and had a stray tentacle of octopus or squid sticking out. This roll was to be eaten whole.
In 1362 DR, Port Castigliar was visited by Artus Cimber and Hydel Pontifax on their quest to find the legendary artifact, the Ring of Winter. They followed in the footsteps of their friend Theron Silvermace who faced grave dangers of the jungle and fled back to Cormyr, leaving a map and some magical items for his friends with Ibn Engaruka, the local Harper agent. Unbeknownst to the adventurers, the villainous leader of the Cult of Frost, Kaverin Ebonhand, was in Chult, on the same quest. Soon after their arrival, Kaverin Ebonhand sent his ice golem assassins after Artus and Pontifax. Hydel Pontifax perished in that assault and was buried in Port Castigliars graveyard, along with many other failed adventurers and explorers. Following Artus friend and father figures death, he stayed in Port Castigliar for the next five days, wallowing in depression and grief. Cimber eventually resumed his quest, now motivated by vengeance, and set out into the jungles, accompanied by Judar Zanj and four hired bearers.
Throughout the 14 century DR, Refuge Bay Trading Company operated in Port Castigliar, with Captain Bawr making trade deliveries to the inhabitants of the Port. Such goods usually included mundane items such as foodstuffs, cookware, knives, and weapons.
Port Castigliar was ignored by Ras Nsi for many years in the mid–14 century DR for its insignificance. However, by the late 15 century DR, undead eventually drove out the people who lived and worked at the Port and its graveyard was desecrated by ghouls. Subsequently, in the late 15 century DR, Port Castigliar was resettled once again.
Port Castigliar was home to local humans of Chultan and Tabaxi ethnic groups. The town had some of other races and ethnicities who were not local but were rescued or fled from pirate and slaver ships. These folks worked as fishers and bearers alongside locals, earning money to pay for their passage back to Faerûn or any other place that was their home.
*Ibn Engaruka the proprietor of Port Castigliars general store and a Harper agent in the 14 century DR. His store was the primary importer and exporter of goods in the Port. All bearers and guides were hired through Ibn Engaruka as well.
*Inyanga Engaruka Ibn Engarukas son who worked the store and eventually took over the business from his father.
*Kwame Zanj and Judar Zanj, Tabaxi human brothers from a nearby village who made a living by guiding travelers through the dangers of the jungles. Kwame Zanj died in 1362 DR, and his brother took over the job only to be murdered shortly after.
*Zrumya a trained dire bat owned by the Engaruka family and was used to pick and move heavier goods in the Port Castigliars general store in the 14 century DR.