The Market Ward was the locale that housed most of Port Nyanzarus mercantile businesses and shops, along with residences of its tradespeople.
The Market Ward comprised the eastern part of the walled portion of Port Nyanzaru, abutting the Harbor Ward to the west and sitting atop a ridge overlooking the Bay of Chult. Modest residences and a myriad of businesses and crafting houses were built in large clusters around and up two hills Mount Sibasa to the northeast&mdashtopped by the Hall of Gold including some fancier villas 
The ward was typically bustling with activity,
Kayas House of Repose A quiet and somewhat fancy inn.
Mossy Rock A modest inn.
Thundering Lizard A busy and noisy establishment.
Dye works The craftspeople of Port Nyanzaru produced the vividly-colorful garments and textiles that were so beloved among the Chultan people.
Grand Coliseum The grand arena of the city held bloody mock battles, extravagant tournaments and holiday celebrations. It sat atop Yklwazi Hill.
Public Bathhouse An egalitarian and elegant bathhouse operated by the church of Sune and open to all. It sat in the north of the ward overlooking the sea.
Tiryki Gate The gate that connected the Market Ward to Tiryki Anchorage outside the walls of the city.
Ubtaos Jaws The gate that connected the Market Ward to the slums of Malars Throat outside the walls of the city.
Fish market This locale was the best place to purchase the freshest catch of the day. The selection was better in the morning, and the prices were higher accordingly.
Red Bazaar The folk of Port Nyanzaru bought their daily needs and sold their goods in this marketplace.
Hall of Gold The citys magnificent temple of Waukeen was situated atop Mount Sibasa.
The Market Ward was home to most of the citys middle- and upper-middle class residents, including many of its merchants and tradesfolk.
* Alastar Bol, a representative of the Order of the Gauntlet who lived in a fancy villa near the wall at the top of Mount Sibasa.
* Flight of Fancy, a tabaxi jeweler who lived and had a shop near the Hall of Gold.
* Omala, a master colorist at the dye works.
* Mowbula Utakulu, a bookie for the citys dinosaur races and a Harper sympathizer.
* The Underbridges, a Chondathan family with three pet velociraptors who lived atop Mount Sibasa.
In the late 15 century DR, the Market Ward served as the beginning and ending point for a new kind of dinosaur race known as Na Nbusos Haka.
During the events of the death curse, the Market Ward was briefly overrun by the forces of the infernal pirate captain Idrianne Smoke. The defense of the ward was led personally by the merchant prince Ekene-Afa.