Port Llast, formerly Graths Hold and Last Port,
It was a small town of 700 folk mainly known for its skilled stonecutters and excellent harbor&mdasha small bay sheltered by a high, rocky spit, with a fine beach and inlet. In Volos estimation, the folk were tense and suspicious, being fearful of attack or other treachery by Luskan, and the village had little of interest about it.
Port Llast was ruled by a First Captain. Around 1365 DR, this was the retired stonemason Haeromos Dothwintyl.
The town was closely allied to Neverwinter.
Luskan coveted Port Llast for its excellent harbor, as the City of Sails wished a southern base for its warships.
A fishing fleet comprising twelve boats operated out of Port Llasts harbor circa 1365 DR, though two in poor condition.
Port Llasts primary land-bound industry was cutting stone, with quarries situated on the coastal headlands just to the south.
Defending Port Llast against bandit raids and potential Luskan attack or annexation were a local of militia of 50 people, backed up by 50 men-at-arms from Neverwinter and 30 more from the Lords Alliance, hailing mostly from Baldurs Gate and Elturel. As a result, any attack on Port Llast by Luskan risked dragging it into a war with three powerful cities.
Catapults that launched boulders were installed atop the cliffs overlooking the harbor.
thumb|250px|A map showing the location of Port Llast.
A Northman raider and explorer named Grath Erlkar built Graths Hold in the . Some time after, the town was renamed to Last Port and it bore that name until roughly the late 1000s DR during the existence of the towns last noble line, the Adreum family, after which it was called Port Llast.
In the , Port Llast was assailed and sacked by the orcs of the Severed Hand. Many of its inhabitants fled south and sought refuge in Eigersstor (which was later Neverwinter).
In the , Port Llast was claimed by the Witch-Queen Laeral as the capitol of her realm of Stornanter. In the , the kraken Slarkrethel attacked Port Llast though repelled by Laeral, it absconded with Stornanters magical throne of state, the Soaring Throne of the Witch-Queen. In the , the Witch-Queen left Stornanter to travel the planes. Nobles of the realm descended into infighting and Stornanter was dissolved, though Port Llast remained.
Sometime before the late 1000s DR, Port Llasts rulership was in the hands of the Adreum family. The last ruler of that clan was the infamous Coward Lord of Last, Lord Adreum VI, who was in power during the Orc Wars of the late 1000s DR. Lord Adreum faced the grave danger of an encroaching orcish horde and ordered Last Port to be abandoned. In fear of the unbeatable horde, Lord Adreum fled with his family, leaving his captain to organize the evacuation. However, predictions of the orc hordes speed were off, and Last Port was besieged before the evacuation was completed while Lord Adreum was safely away. He returned to find the city ablaze, and many of its defenders and commoners were slaughtered, drastically reducing its population. When the battles were over, the survivors of the siege became a furious mob who blamed Lord Adreum for the deaths of their friends and families. The mob murdered the entire Adreum line. The town was renamed from Last Port to Port Llast, and the last ruling family was remembered mainly for the "Adreum Curse" that was said to haunt the town for centuries to come. Lord Adreum VI was buried in Gothaladreum, a cemetery on the edge of the Neverwinter Wood, long abandoned and ruined by the late 14 century DR. His grave stood just to the east of the cemeterys entrance, decorated with a statue of a winged angelic being. However, despite being interred, Lord Adreum VI did not find peace in death. His oath to protect Port Llast was unfulfilled, and for the centuries that followed, when the town was in danger, Adreum rose from his ancient grave.
In the , the Overwizard Glagorn and other wizards of the Arcane Brotherhood attacked the mage Llomnauvel "Firehands" Oloadhin of Port Llast. Llomnauvel ensured his and their destruction when he worked a mighty magic that hurled down his abode and burned away the lives of all within it.
In the , Port Llast was weakened by the War of Shadows, leaving its outskirts scarred by burned buildings, empty barns, and barren fields. With Neverwinter weakened as well, Port Llast became occupied by a Luskan army. The huge undead forces, led by ancient spirits of Port Llasts founders, tried to reclaim the city. Its not known whose side won the conflict.
After the Spellplague of 1385 DR and the return of parts of Abeir, the transposition of Laerakond changed the tides surrounding Port Llast, filling the harbor with silt and making it effectively useless as a port. This ultimately made Neverwinter an easier harbor to reach. With the docks of Port Llast failing and trade dying off, many citizens fled the town or died at the hands of marauding bandits and sahuagin raids, leaving only a few stubborn holdouts remaining in residence.
After decades of decline, both economically and through the loss of large portions of the city to invading sahuagin, Port Llast enjoyed renewed hope as those areas of the city were retaken in the , with help from Drizzt DoUrden and companions, as well as an influx of peoples from the northern Neverwinter Wood and the farmland surrounding Luskan.
In the , Port Llast was occupied by Tidescourge Pirates, who used it as a base of operations.
Some time after the War of the Silver Marches of 1485/1486 DR, frost giants raided the town twice, killing any townsfolk who stood their ground.
In the , a drow raiding party including driders assaulted the city searching for Drizzt DoUrden.  A number of inhabitants were killed and some others were abducted for slaves, including Artemis Entreri, Dahlia Sinfelle, Ambergris, and Afafrenfere. Ultimately Drizzt and the reborn Companions of the Hall succeeded in rescuing the majority of the lost citizens from QXorlarrin.
* The Cracked Anvil a smithy run by Haljal Throndor.
* Whaelgunds Wheelrace Wagonworks a wagonworks and repair shop operated by Whaelgund.
* The Jack and Saber the most typical tavern.
* The Alliance Arms the only inn in the town c. 1365 DR.
* Stonecutters Solace the only inn and tavern c. 1463 DR. It rested along the eastern cliff and was a favored haunt of the local townspeople. Drizzt and his companions stayed at the inn while they cleared the city of sahuagin and helped revitalize the port town.