Tiryki Anchorage () was a ward of the Chultan city of Port Nyanzaru located on the southeast side of the city, outside of its walls. It was considered a slum, and was home to the citys animal-handlers, river folk, and smugglers.
The anchorage sat at the mouth of the River Tiryki, hence its name.
Tiryki Anchorage hugged the outside of eastern walls of Port Nyanzaru and extended south where it turned into the pens for the citys dinosaurs. The northern and eastern parts of Tiryki Anchorage featured the docks. and the odor of dinosaur manure, wet fur, and tanned hides stretched all the way from the dinosaur pens to the walls of the city.
Buildings in Tiryki Anchorage were largely shanties and hovels made of weathered wood and stone, and some taller structures. and sometimes very seedy. The district further boasted a large number of taverns, especially around its ramshackle harbor.
Much of Port Nyanzarus trade in beasts&mdashnotably dinosaurs&mdashoccured in Tiryki Anchorage, as did the training of said beasts.
The docks of Tiryki Anchorage were virtually unregulated and unpatrolled compared to those of the citys Harbor Ward, and so were quite popular&mdashespecially among smugglers&mdashdespite the relative lack of resources to help with loading or unloading ships.
Lodging and accommodations were cheaper in Tiryki Anchorage than in most other parts of Port Nyanzaru, and so were popular among visiting explorers. 
Because it lay outside of Port Nyanzarus defensive walls, the people of Tiryki Anchorage relied on the volunteer Citizens Brigade to keep them safe. In case of attack, a horn was sounded to usher the inhabitants to safety and the residents could rely on the keen senses of the many penned beasts in the district to detect invaders. However, unlike Port Nyanzarus other slum districts, the Anchorage had no safe havens in which to hide (such as the stone ziggurats of the Old City or the Temple of Tymora in Malars Throat), and so their only recourse was to flee to through Tiryki Gate before it was locked. 
Dinosaur Pens The paddocks to the south were where the citys beasts of burden and racing dinosaurs alike were trained and housed at night. The air was filled with the throaty calls of the huge beasts alongside the general noises and stenches of ranching.
Docks The docks of the anchorage were much less regulated than those located in the Harbor Ward. There was no lighthouse to help guide ships safely into port.
Serpents Coil This smugglers tunnel could be accessed via a grate in the west end of the docks, and led into Port Nyanzaru proper.
Tiryki Gate The main access point into the city, connecting the Anchorage to the Market Ward.
Tiryki Anchorage was home to some of Port Nyanzarus poorer residents, including animal-handlers and river folk, along with the more rowdy individuals such as smugglers, adventurers, and explorers.
* Jailo Mek, a smuggler and dinosaur handler.
During the colonial rule of Amn over Port Nyanzaru, the Old City was among the districts where people had to live if they did not work for a major trading company.
During the events of the death curse in the late 15 century DR, Tiryki Anchorage was briefly overrun by the forces of the infernal pirate captain Idrianne Smoke.