Procampur ( which was related to the Damaran language.
Procampur was an ancient and well-established city, the oldest in the Vast and with a long heritage.
Originally, it was the site of an anchorage. When thieves stole the treasury of King Glaurauth the Great of Westgate ( to ), they fled by ship and anchored here. From they, they ventured into the Earthfast Mountains, with Westgates wizards in pursuit both forces were slain in Elvenblood Pass.
Dwarves from Earthfast founded the underground town of Proeskampalar in the . Fueled by this trade, Proeskampalar was a strong and wealthy city-state before the .
In the early 5 century DR, King Meldath I of Impiltur led a conquest of the Vast and other nearby lands, turning Proeskampalar and Chessagol into vassal city-states. He took the royal regalia of both cities."Impiltur The Forgotten Kingdom" names this warrior king Meldath the Magnificent. However, The Grand History of the Realms lists only Meldath I "the Mighty" (441–445 DR) and Meldath II (445–448 DR). The name and details suggest this is in fact Meldath I. Both Proeskampalar/Procampur and Chessagol/Tsurlagol later became independent, but this event has not been detailed.
In time, the human surface settlement grew into a great city, known as Procampur, which was founded in the .Its not clear when the Thultyrls rose to power. This history assumes it took place after the city became known as Procampur, owing to mentions of it under that name in the source. However, this couldve occurred when Procampur was described as a strong and wealthy city prior to 1 DR.
At the time, Procampur was a fortress-city, based around the Castle District of later centuries. The Thultyrls who ruled it preferred peace, order, and discipline in a walled and guarded city. To reduce petty crimes like theft and enable easy rule, the expanding city was segregated into walled, self-contained districts, connected by guarded passages, unlike in other open and sprawling cities.
In the , the master jewelers of Procampur crafted a new crown for the coronation of King Palaghard I of Cormyr. But the crown was stolen when the legendary pirate Immurk the Invincible raided the merchant-ship carrying the precious cargo. The crime was so audacious that Palaghard believed no one could be so brave, and the Procampan jewelers must be cheating him instead. He mustered his armies and nearly declared war on Procampur before being corrected. This crime signified a rise in piracy on the Inner Sea, and the nations around it began building warships to protect their merchants. The crown was eventually recovered, but was so heavy, grandiose and ugly that it was only used for a few months. Immurk went on to steal from Procampur, among several other cities.
Finally, the Pirate Wars broke out in the , when kingdoms around the Inner Sea allied against a pirate fleet based at Dragonisle. Procampur contributed mercenary forces and, with Impiltur and Aglarond, formed the eastern fleet of 75 ships. Working with the western fleet of Cormyr, Sembia, and the Vilhon Reach, they defeated Urdogens pirate fleet in the Battle of the Fallen. For the eastern fleets brave rescue of the Sembian force, Procampur and Impiltur claimed a greater share of the prizes. Soon after, the alliance fell into bickering and broke apart.
In the mid–13 century DR, a fever in Procampur killed several people, including the current Thultyrl. He was succeeded by his son, a young man. The current Hamayarch was the Pearl, whod apparently held the position for three generations, despite her youthful appearance. The mid–13 century saw the Vast suffer rampaging hordes of orcs, goblins, hobgoblins, and bugbears, supplemented by some human brigands and half-breed rogues. In the , the orc warlord Fottergrim and the magelord Archlis led a mixed horde of them in an invasion and takeover of Tsurlagol. The Thultyrl honored Procampurs treaty with Tsurlagol and led an army to besiege and liberate the city. To supplement his forces, he hired mercenaries, including camel-riding cavalry from the Shaar and the Siegebreakers, an adventuring band of sappers. It was an expensive undertaking, paid for by Procampurs nobles and merchants by the treaty, Procampur expected to recover its expenses from Tsurlagol. It also had to be done quickly, before those paying for it grew too restless.
The Pearl predicted the Thultyrl was destined to die young, at the age of 26 and early in his reign, in battle against Fottergrim before the walls of Tsurlagol. Instead, he was wounded on a hunting trip during the campaign (an event perhaps orchestrated by the Pearl). The Pearl secretly prevented his wounds from healing to keep him away from the front-lines and Fottergrim, believing he would go on to become a good king and complete the Great Codex of Procampurs laws. Thanks to the Siegebreakers and the Moaning Diamond artifact, Fottergrim and Archlis were slain, Procampurs armies victorious, and Tsurlagol was liberated. Fottergrims silver-plated skull was mounted on a pillar halfway between the two cities with a warning against threatening Procampurs allies.
Also in the mid–13 century,That is, "more than a century ago"  before at least 1357 DR. a hobgoblin horde marched near Procampur. It was defeated with the aid of the mage Snilloc, who earned some fame for his actions here.
At some point, Procampur was assaulted by the green dragon Maldrithor, the "Sarbreenar Wyrm". Though it laired at Sarbreenar, it had eaten all it could there and flew south to Procampur for food. There it ripped the roofs from houses and ate the people it caught inside. The city suffered two such raids, and by the third they had hired a wizard to slay the dragon. With exploding "swordballs", the wizard bloodily tore Maldrithor apart and sent the dragon crashing down dead in the harbor.This is estimated to be some time between 649 DR (the fall of Roldilar, the dwarf realm that possessed Sarbreenar) and 1370 DR (the date of The City of Ravens Bluff.
Prior to 1356 DR, Procampur had conflicts with Mulmaster and Sembia, in which it fended off their attacks in decisive naval battles. It also suffered several pirate raids. Although they pillaged the harbor district, they were always unable to break into the main city.
right|An illumination from A Discovery of the World, depicting Vilhiard of Procampur meeting a Tuigan tribe.
A Hierarch of Deneir (thought to be receiving commands from the Thultyrl) sent the renowned scholar-monk Vilhiard on a number of lengthy and hazardous journeys into the east. The Thultyrl granted him a supply of wealth for expenses. Though he later wrote of his travels in A Discovery of the World, Vilhiard remained quiet about the actual purposes of these missions.Descriptions and references to the Tuigans and Thayans in the passage of text from A Discovery of the World in The Horde place Vilhiards travels sometime between 1074 DR and 1360 DR.
In the , the Plague of Dragons quickly spread around the Inner Sea from the Vilhon Reach to Impiltur and Tsurlagol. The priests of Procampur feared their city would be next to suffer the diseases and the dragon that spread them. The Thultyrl of the time recruited the temple corps to help defend the city.The outcome of the Plague of Dragons approach to Procampur is unknown.
The very first of the Thayan enclaves was founded in Procampur in the , when Samas Kul, Thays Master of the Guild of Foreign Trade, organized the concession of the small Thayan Quarter there.
By 1357 DR, the Thultyrl of Procampur was the young Rendeth of the Royal Blood, while the position of Hamayarch was held by Alamondh. Alamondh was in truth an evil mage named Carthoun Misintle with desires on the throne.
During the Time of Troubles, in the , many wealthy merchants of Procampur fled to their country houses in the neighboring town of Maerstar. However, they were harassed there by looting mobs of refugees from Tantras, Calaunt, and even Mulmaster whod also come through Maerstar. To protect their treasures, the merchants buried them in the paddocks, but not all survived to retrieve them afterwards, such as Uligker Oloskar.
Meanwhile, back in Procampur, Grand Patriarch Cullen Kordamant, overall head of the Church of Oghma, vanished without a trace from his home, as did much of his immediate clergy. The disappearance was a subject of much mystery and speculation. Unfortunately, answers from Oghma and other gods after the Time of Troubles were confusing and contradictory, providing no clear solution. Though some thought Kordamant simply died during the chaos, others claimed it was actually Oghma who died, and that the Grand Patriarch had ascended to replace him. Many chose a middle-ground, admitting the possibility that the Patriarch might be on another plane or ascended to semi-divinity. With the Oghmyte church left without an ultimate head, the mystery caused a growing split into rival factions, disagreeing along hierarchical and theological lines. The Orthodox Church of Oghma arose in Procampur, while Kordamants home became a shrine to Oghma.
In addition, High Priest Undil Latheen of the local church of Waukeen began to go mad at the fate of his missing goddess.
The nobles of Procampur contributed to the crusade of King Azoun IV of Cormyr against the Tuigan Horde in the , by selling supplies to the army. Nobles like Duke Jozul Piniago had little involvement in the war yet profiteered off it.
Following the war, the priests of Deneir in Procampur invited the lama Koja of Khazari, former historian to Yamun Khahan of the Tuigan, to visit their city and stay at their temple. Koja preferred Procampur and worked on his A History of the Tuigan there. Wishing to have the book mass-published, he sought the services of the local printer Inkstain and unsuccessfully requested money for the effort from Duke Piniago. In the end, Deneir himself appeared to Koja and granted him the money.
Early in the , priests of Torm ran Calispar Delgorth, a priest of Talona, out of Procampur. Delgorth had operated a secret workshop in the city for years, from which hed experimented with and sold poisons. By Marpenoth of 1367 DR, Procampur was struck by the featherlung plague, which killed hundreds of people, particularly in the District of the Poor. Procampurs wards hampered the city, as the other wards were slow to react, which contributed to the deaths, and to be treated by clerics of Helm and Torm, the sick had to cross the city to reach the Temple District, spreading the plague further. High priests Orn Thavil of Tymora and Baniya Dolester of Lliira went to the poor district to set up an auxiliary shrine and treated the sick directly, and other priests soon joined then. Though their actions halted the spread of the disease, the Thultyrl reprimanded both high priests for breaking Procampurs district rules and reminded them that the city and its laws were older than a number of deities. During the turmoil, a panicking mob accused a woman with facial tattoos of being a priestess of Talona. Though she said she was just a sailor of Prespur (and thus possibly a pirate), they seized her anyway and lynched her by hanging. Before she died, she cursed the mob to suffer far worse in future.
The city of Ravens Bluff proposed in the , to form a regional government in the Vast. Procampur remained neutral on the plan, preferring to wait-and-see. That year, Procampur sent aid to Tantras to help against another threatened invasion from Myrkyssa Jelan, but she and her army dispersed before Procampan forces arrived.
Both Thultyrl Rendeth and Hamayarch Alamondh were still in power by 1372 DR, though some had begun to suspect that Alamondh was deceitful and unjust.
By 1358 DR, the most recent census showed a population of some 49,000 people 98% human, 1% dwarf, and 1% half-elf.The Forgotten Realms Campaign Setting (3rd edition) saw widespread significant population reductions, though it is not clear why. The larger figure of 49,000 may refer to the population of the surrounding land that Procampur controls, while 24,631 may only be those people within the city itself.
Procampur was ruled by an overlord with the title of Thultyrl. The position was a hereditary one "Thultyrl" was originally the name of the ruling family before it was adopted as their title, leaving them with no last name. Every Thultyrl swore eternal vengeance on any pirate that dared raid Procampurs ships or attack its harbor. By 1357 DR and through 1372 DR, the Thultyrl of Procampur was Rendeth of the Royal Blood, a young, popular, and energetic but level-headed warrior.
The second-most important role in the city was the Hamayarch, a mage-advisor and assistant to the Thultyrl, who was very loyal to their ruler and operated with their blessing. It was said that "Behind every Thultyrl stood a Hamayarch." This post was traditionally taken by a mage weaker than the Thultyrl, and was the highest-ranking wizard in the court. The Hamayarch governed and regulated the magic-users of Procampur. By 1357 DR and through 1372 DR and after, the Hamayarch of Procampur was Alamondh, who was in truth an evil mage named Carthoun Misintle with desires on the throne.
Below the Thultyrl were a number of nobles and aristocrats, such as Duke Jozul Piniago.
The high priests of the citys temples were known as Hierarchs and some, like the Hierarchs of Deneir, were believed to take their orders from the Thultyrl.
Procampur was an independent city-state, It was the oldest and richest of them.
Procampur had a long-running alliance with neighboring Tsurlagol,
The Ravenians of Ravens Bluff tended to look up to and respect Procampur, treating it as their "elder sister" of the sister cities. The kingdom of Impiltur also maintained good relations with Procampur, and its cities had close ties with it before they unified, particularly Lyrabar.
A Ravens Bluff–originated proposal to form a regional government across the Vast was met with a cautious, neutral response from Procampur.
Procampur had past conflicts with Mulmaster and Sembia, in which it fended off their attacks in decisive naval battles.
Law and order were paramount in Procampur, which had a set of firm but not particularly harsh or difficult laws. These were strictly implemented and enforced by authorities, who were vigilant and competent, and the people were law-abiding. Though visitors used to more chaotic cities might find themselves restricted by the many laws and codes, or just find them strange, anyone could ask the gate guards to list and explain them, which they did readily and patiently. All the citys laws were compiled in the Great Codex.
Though the citys gem and jewelry trade attracted the criminal element,
Procampan authorities were particularly hostile to pirates. Every Thultyrl formally swore eternal vengeance against any pirate who dared attack the citys ships or raid its well-defended harbor, while judges passed swift judgment on captured pirates. A first offense saw a pirate banished from the city, with a hanging death for those who returned. Nevertheless, Hamayarch Alamondh encouraged Thultyrl Rendeth to relax the citys stance on piracy in the 1360s DR and show leniency and conciliation. A few pirates were even allowed to use Procampurs port, provided their crimes were not too great and no Procampan captain accused them of anything.
Slavery was illegal in Procampur. All slaves taken to the city were considered free. Nevertheless, slave galleys sometimes passed through, including those with Tuigan prisoners in 1362 DR.
Visitors to Procampur were segregated. In particular, visiting adventurers were forced to stay in the port district, officially outside the city proper. Any former adventurer whod acquired a noble title and desired to live in the Nobles District had to swear to the Thultyrl they would never adventure again and promise not to aid or give shelter to other adventurers in their house.
The city maintained fog trumpets that warned of fogs rolling in from the Sea of Fallen Stars.
In the Nobles District, at least, there were magical street lamps that produced a constant light.
Procampur maintained a strong defense force of army and navy, primarily to protect its valuable gem and metal trade from pirates and rival states.
Circa 1246 DR, Procampan soldiers were clad in half-plate armor, including chain mail, banded mail, and breastplate parts, together with shoulder and arm guards, greaves, and gauntlets. These were matching, tailored and specially fitted to a soldier, over white shirt and polished boots. They also had cavalry. Nobles brought three horses and a man-servant with them on campaign. Around 1358 DR, Procampan soldiers wore plate mail and fought with broadswords, spears, morning stars, daggers, and crossbows. At the time, Procampur fielded an army of 4000 well-trained soldiers.
The navy has sixteen major warships with highly trained crews. Several times, Procampur had relied on these ships and crews for its very survival, so they were heavily invested in and well-maintained. They policed the eastern Dragon Reach against pirates, but preferred to stick close to their home-port and the commercial sealanes rather than exploring the less-traveled areas of the Inner Sea.
Much like their parent city, Procampan armed forces were neat, tidy, and orderly. Their camps were arranged like their city, with banners and ribbon edgings colored similarly to the districts gold for the Thultyrls tent, silver for nobles, yellow for servants, and black for priests. The largest tents were impressive pavilions. In the city itself, military buildings like barracks, stables, armories, guard-posts and guard-houses, all with white-washed roofs, circumvented the district system and were located at strategic locations throughout.
Many laws applied to the armed forces, with specific rulings against aiding the enemy and forbidding officers to lose their armor, They also had scholars to research histories and old maps to rediscover tactics and tricks from earlier wars.
Procampurs armed forces were sufficient for its own needs, but on larger campaigns, such as the liberation of Tsurlagol in 1246 DR, the city sometimes needed to hire mercenaries. These were expensive undertakings, paid for by Procampurs nobles and merchants, and had to be over quickly, before those paying for it grew too restless. The crusaders of the blade magic sword-temple, led by Oriphaun McMaren, were usually engaged in providing security at major events and noble galas, as well as guarding visiting dignitaries.
The Forty were forty stern bodyguards to the Thultyrl.
left|250px|A map of Procampur with districts marked. Clockwise from the east Castle District, Temple District, Merchant District, Adventurers District, District of the Poor, harbor, Sea District, Services District, and Nobles District. The Great Way runs through the center.
Procampur was famous for being divided into districts reserved for specific activities and people and each with a distinct color of slate roof tiles. Both roof colors and allowed activities were set by royal decree and rules remained strict about what could and could not be done in each district. Only in the port or outside the city proper were these restrictions broken. It was said that any visitor to Procampur could tell their location simply by looking upwards.
In Procampurs expansion beyond the original fortress-city (what was later the Castle District), the growing city was divided into the district system.
Joining all parts of the city together was the Great Way, a wide avenue that ran east–west between the Castle District and the harbor. There it ended in a single gigantic gate with massive towers. It was the main walking route of the city, but could be used for all activities that did not hinder travel or interfere with other travelers. The avenue was also walled, but gates led off it into each district.
The city had few large gardens or parks, which were generally found in the Nobles District.
The Castle District sat at the western end of the Great Way, and was the former fortress-city of Procampur before it expanded beyond its walls. Later, it was the site of two grand buildings with gold roofs the Palace of the Thultyrl and the High Court, which housed royal servants and officials, apartments for state guests, courtrooms, and the treasury. It also contained a number of white-roofed military buildings, mainly barracks and stables for the soldiers. People who did not live or work in the Castle District were discouraged from entering and looking around.
The silver-roofed Nobles District sat north-west of the Castle District and bordered the Services District. The area was tidy, spacious, and luxurious, with all the grand houses of the citys nobility, flagged streets, and gardens with trees and ornamental pools.
The yellow-roofed Services District sat between the Nobles District and the Sea District, north of the Great Way. This area was set aside for a range of service activities, for restaurants, taverns, and a various businesses, and was home to builders, servants, handy-people, and so on.
The blue-roofed Sea District lay north of the Great Way, between the Services District and the harbor. It was home to people who made their living off the sea, from sailors to sea-captains to fleet-owners, though by necessity fisherfolk and ship-builders were located in the port itself. It was also dedicated to cargo storage, outfitters, shipping businesses, and other buildings and businesses related to sea-going trades.
The gray-roofed District of the Poor, also known as "Graystreets", laid south of the Great Way and between the harbor and the Adventurers District. All houses here—mostly rooming houses—were owned and maintained by the Thultyrl, while anyone who could own their own home did so in another district. It was home to the poorest people of the city beggars, the unemployed, and common laborers, who begged, pooled their wealth, and did their best to survive. It was also home to visitors who had to stay in the city for a season or longer. Wealth, or lack of it, was no requirement for dwelling in the Graystreets, and nor was there any stigma to having an address here. The district wasnt very strongly guarded.
The smallest district was the red-roofed Adventurers District, lying between the District of the Poor and the Merchant District, south of the Great Way. It was dedicated the more dangerous trades, including exploration, prospecting, mining, scavenging, caravan guarding, wagon and caravan driving, and weapon making and training. People who engaged in such activities were all generally considered "adventurers" in Procampur. The area housed them and those who had no particular work to do yet had the money to own their own homes anyway.
It had other purposes as well, being a place for gambling, hearing bards tell tales, and finding adventurers who were free with their magic. It was home to the notorious "red-roof girls".The bawdy local song "Im Quite the Red-Roof Girl" from Crypt of the Moaning Diamond suggests that the Adventurers District may also be a home to prostitutes and festhalls.
The Merchant District had sea-green roofs and sat south of the Great Way, between the Adventurers District and the Temple District. It contained the shops and homes of local, domestic businessmen, those who did not conduct trades related to the sea or adventuring. It was filled with workshops and apartments, with narrow, unflagged streets and the smells of the various businesses.
The Temple District had shining black roofs and sat between the Merchant District and the Castle District, beneath the Great Way. The district comprised four great temple complexes, as well as smaller temples and many shrines to lesser gods. There was an open space for setting up temporary shrines. The district was also home to the scattered houses of the clergy. The temples were built of stone. The temples were
* The Domes of Reason, dedicated to Oghma
* The Hall of Success, dedicated to Waukeen
* The House of the Hand, dedicated to Torm
* The Ladys Happy Hall, dedicated to Tymora
* The Tower of the Eye, dedicated to Helm
* An unnamed temple of Deneir and
* An unnamed temple of Istishia
Among others, there was a shrine to Mystra, as well shrines to Deneir and Oghma, in addition to their temples.Forgotten Realms Adventures and the Forgotten Realms Campaign Setting 2nd edition (revised) state that there are only shrines to Mystra, Deneir, and Oghma, and the latter equates the shrine of Oghma to the home of Kordamant. However, Faiths and Pantheons places the Domes of Reason, a major temple of Oghma, in Procampur, while the short story "Patronage" in Realms of Valor and the Horde Campaign place an unnamed temple of Deneir there. This suggests that these shrines exist in addition to the temples.
The only exceptions to the district rule were military buildings, which were located at strategic locations throughout the city and were marked by white-washed roofs. These were barracks, stables, armories, guard-posts, and guard-houses.
thumb|Hm-boye in a foggy Procampan street.
At the western end of the Great Way, beyond two huge towers, was the harbor or port area. Being officially outside the city, and outside the Thultyrls influence, the buildings here kept to no particular purpose, style, size, or roof color. Visitors, citizens, and foreign traders here could come and go freely and act as they liked. It contained places that could not or would not fit into the districts, being home to warehouses, fisherfolk, and ship-builders that needed to be nearer the sea, as well as stables and facilities for training and caring for mounts and livestock that didnt belong to Procampan authorities. There were also cheaper inns and taverns that catered to travelers, as well as a number of small "bed-and-beer" houses that huddled around them. It could be a crowded and dank place, and in parts disreputable.
The port area was hemmed in by two stub walls off the main city walls that curved to meet the shore in a rough crescent. The district was some quarter-mile (400 meters) wide, and extended a significant distance up the coast. The city didnt have an easily controlled harbor mouth, making the harbor difficult to defend well. The north and south walls each had a pair of gates leading to the coast road, the High Trail, and the North Road.
The following streets and shops were found in Procampur
* Scribes Alley, Merchant District Forgemaster Inkstain
* Shards Street, Adventurers District Rendrils Forge
* Leaping Dolphin Lane Summergarth Facilitations
There were several inns and taverns that catered to locals, travelers and adventurers
* The Happy Hippocampus
* The Silent Sword
* The Griffins Claw
There was also the Thayan Quarter, which was the very first Thayan enclave, founded in 1344 DR.
Raven Express kept an office in Procampur, allowing communication via carrier-raven to its offices in other cities.
Several organizations and adventuring bands were based in Procampur.
Of the Harpers, there were at least two resident agents, Opara Rendril and Halthara Summergarth. The Red Wizards of Thay were of course represented at the Thayan Quarter.
Though it lacked a thieves guild, Procampur was home to its own assassins guild, a small and elite group called the Shadowkind. The Cabal of the Crown adventuring company was based in Procampur.
Some items from the famous sage Thallastams collection of magical swords were never found after his death, and were thought to still be hidden somewhere in Procampur.
The royal regalia of old Proeskampalar was said to be buried with King Meldath I of Impiltur, in his tomb in the Hill of Tombs.
By 1372 DR, some people began to suspect that the Hamayarch, Alamondh, was unjust and less than truthful.