Proskur () was a trading city in Cormyr, that was located south of the kingdoms traditional borders, in the Dragon Coast region of the Eastern Heartlands. While it had become a place known for honest and fair trade, and was even a haven for the unscrupulous Red Wizards.
The city was located south of the Bridge of Fallen Men and roughly equidistant between the southern tips of the Sunset Mountains and the Storm Horn Mountains. The High Road connected the city with Easting to the southwest and High Horn far to the north, while the Overmoor Trail connected it with Elversult to the southeast.
To the northwest of Proskur was located the fortification of Stormhawk Keep.
The city lent its name to the roouddan, a vegetable colloquially known as the "red turnip of Proskur".
Proskur was led by a merchant council—unimaginatively called the Proskur council—that consisted of people who all used to be thieves guild members. These people, although good and honest, were former members of a thieves guild, and allowed illicit substances to be traded within their city in return for kickbacks. The leader of the council was Leonara Obarstal, who claimed to be distantly related to King Azoun IV of Cormyr.
Thieves and swindlers had a very hard time in Proskur as the Proskur council were all very familiar with their methods.
The city was known to maintain both its own military and city guard force.
Circa the mid–14 century DR, a variety of exotic and useful items and substances could be found among the merchants of Proskur. The heart, eyes, and brains of catoblepas were imported from the Farsea Marshes to be sold in Proskur. Around that same time, a small merchant company in the city dispatched trade caravans leaded up with maxoris, a preservative used as an alternative to salt and spices.
Proskur was one of the stops along the trade route of the Thousandheads Trading Coster.
Since its founding, Proskur was an independent trade city with a historical associated with mercantile groups and thieves guild.
In the , foreign agents of Thay formed their enclave in the city of Proskur.
The city was annexed by the increasingly-powerful Cormyr in the  however, as the Kingdom of the Purple Dragon expanded its hold over much of the lands south of the Dragonmere. In the years that followed Proskur underwent a change to become a respectable place of just laws and honest trade,
Inns & Taverns
* Standing Stone Inn, a successfully-run inn that was renovated and later bought out by the Thayans of the enclave.
Shops & Businesses
* House of the Sword, an armorers shop run by the Harper agent Helmir Obersaer.
* Thayan enclave, a Red Wizard enclave of about 150 people that legally dealt in drugs and slaves as well as the more-standard fare.
Temples
* Rogue Redeemed, the local temple to Mask led by Patriarch Milo Hallyspear.
* Temple of Tempus, a holy house of the Lord of Battles overseen by Priest-Captain Dologar Nathan and his six lesser clergy.
During the mid–14 century DR, there were rumors that Zhentarim agents were operating within the city.