The Pyramid of Amun-Re was the tomb of Amun-Re, a pharaoh of Bakar. The river Athis used to spring magically from within the pyramid before the pharaohs curse caused it to dry out.
The structure was  on a side and  tall, surrounded by a  wall, which was broken only by a temple the pyramid was lustrous and untouched by the winds, while the wall was extremely worn down. The pyramid was continuously visible from  away, and its shape was discernible from  furthermore, it reflected light such that it was a landmark anywhere from the tops of dunes within , and the tops of hills within . It was oriented with the compass points, with a single temple on the south side breaking its polished faces. In fact, the Pyramid was visible from the Dustwall mountains to the south.
The Star of Mo-Pelar and Amun-Res Staff of ruling were kept in the pyramid. The entire construction radiated magic.
alt=Three adventurers and a pharaohs statue. One is prying out stones it has for eyes the other two are on the foreground, keeping a lookout.|Each eye of the statue of Osiris was a large thumb
The pharaohs tombs were not merely burial sites but also places of worship to help them along to becoming divine even as they made the trip to the afterlife.
Out of the south edge of the pyramid, a temple was visible, rising  along the face of the pyramid. This temple was staffed by dervishes, many of which were often drunk. There were also bandits, a party of dwarves looking for loot, and giant rats. The entrance was reachable from two staircases which circled a  wide basin it was empty as of the mid-14 century DR, but during the heyday of Bakar it was the spring of the river Athis, filled with water teleported from a spring inside of the pyramid. The doors to the pyramid were arched and built out of bronze and had two dervishes keeping permanent guard. The dervishes would attack anyone who sought to enter for purposes other than worship. 
The High Altar of Amun-Re was accessible through a short corridor the room had carvings upon the walls, spelling out a copy of the Tome of Amun-Re which could be found at the altar in the center of the room. The statue of the pharaoh at the back of the room had a secret door, behind which was the end of a one-way teleporter. A laseda, or dervish cleric, stayed at the altar most of the time. 
A green statue of Osiris had two star rubies for eyes, of significantly higher value than average star rubies.Gold pieces in Desert of Desolation weigh 10 to a pound. Thus, a star ruby worth 1550 gp, according to the book, is actually worth 155 pounds of gold, or 7750 gp in future editions. As a star ruby is worth 5000 gp as a base value in later editions with coins 50 to a pound, the 7750 gp value is actually about half again the value of a normal star ruby. The back of the temple held a staircase leading towards an entrance  up into the pyramid. 
alt=Three adventurers look down at a sarcophagus. The sarcophagus cover is carved to look like a man it is only visible from the waist down.|thumb|The Star of Mo-Pelar was on a boat floating thirty thousand feet above the ground. A portal connected there from the True Tomb.
The True Tomb level consisted of four rooms and was accessible through a waterway. Attempting to enter the water from this room, however, led to a tumultuous journey through both the Grand Halls of the Pharaohs, which ended in them being spat out of the lions mouth in the Dome of Flight.
One of the rooms had a painting of a boat in the sky the painting functioned as a portal, sending anyone crossing it  straight up,  away from an actual boat immobilized in midair the Star Gem of Mo-Pelar was held there. The Ruling Staff was held across the sarcophagus of Amun-Re, whose mummified body would attack intruders if they opened it. A statue of the pharaoh on the back of the room was actually a secret door to an alcove where someone armed with both the Star of Mo-Pelar and the staff of ruling could teleport to the Meditation Room of the Temple.