The Temple District of Ravens Bluff was an important and very wealthy region of the city, home to a great many of its noble families, merchant houses,, shops and businesses, and finer mansions and estates. Within its borders were the grand and imposing Ravendark Castle, which overlooked the citys Harbor District, the citys courthouse and the Realms-famous Ravenian playhouse. 
The district had four distinct neighborhoods. While they were all fairly wealthy and prosperous, each was defined by its own unique characteristics.
The knights of Ravens Bluff had a strong presence within the Temple District. Their main headquarters, the Hall of the Raven, was located in Altarside, 
This neighborhood was the safest and perhaps the most wealthy neighborhood in the Temple District. The City Watch maintained heavy patrols down Raphiel Road and Blacktree Boulevard to protect the many priests returning to their luxury apartments, such as those in Hengelhouse. Not even the citys great many adventurers were brazen enough to brandish even holstered weapons in this locale.
While not quite as affluent as Gowntown, the Holyhouses neighborhood contained some of the citys most spectacular architecture, featured in the locales many temples, most notably the Silver Halls and the Tower of Holy Revelry. Adding to the luxuriousness and beauty were the many palatial manors and noble estates, such as Ondrelspires and Elderstars. The numerous Guildhalls on Manycoins Way and DeVillars Ride lent a great amount of wealth and activity to the local hustle and bustle. 
A more modest and business-oriented region of the district, Swordspoint featured a great many stores and specialty shops, such as the famous-but-exploded magic shoppe Chemcheaux, and even a beauty salon that offered tattoos to their clientele. It was an immensely popular destination for sightseers from out of town, who could stroll through the Bluffs largest city park, and it was a sprawling shopping plaza of sorts for Ravenian citizens.
Altarside was perhaps the busiest of the districts neighborhoods, as it housed a massive imposing castle, On the west side of the neighborhood, the massive bronze Gates of the Watchful Raven opened up to the Seaglimpse neighborhood in the Harbor District.