The Red Rocks was an archipelago found in the Sea of Swords, directly off the Sword Coast North.
250px|A map depicting the Red Rocks.
They were located off the coast of the Redcliffs and the Sword Mountains, approximately equidistant between the metropolis of Waterdeep to the south and the town of Leilon to the north along the Sword Coast North, and not far from the coastal fortress of Thornhold.
The archipelago comprised hundreds upon hundreds of small islets, the majority of them wave-eroded sea stacks but others mere boulders that rose just above sea level."Environs of Waterdeep" says the Hall of Reflected Moonlights islet has a stair "carved into the face of the Redcliffs", but the Redcliffs are on the mainland. It is likely the island is a stack that separated from the Redcliffs.
Worse, the turbulent waters constantly raged and thrashed and the islands were within a permanent field of wild magic that blanketed the area like a maelstrom.
The waters around the rocky islets were home to a diverse population of fish and shellfish. Many of these were prized in Waterdeep, so fishers in small boats braved these waters to harvest them.
All manner of nasty aerial creatures dwelt atop and alongside the Red Rocks, several shrieks of harpies and swoops of perytons, and at least one known manticore. The waters below were home to a pack of seawolves.
Throughout the centuries, the Red Rocks were responsible for the sinking of countless ships. Most sailors of larger ships steered well clear of their location.
A local legend claimed that the fortress known as Black Logans Keep on one of the islets was built by one Black Logan, supposedly a peer of an early warlord of Waterdeep, but it wasnt specified which. The two came into conflict, Black Logan escaped to his island keep, and the warlords army laid siege to it for over a year. Finally, Black Logan suffered heartstop and died and his troops tossed the body off the wall as a sign of surrender.
Circa 1370 DR, the manticore of the Red Rocks allied with the seawolves to make the northern isles their hunting grounds, forcing fishermen to avoid that area entirely.
About a year before the set of rules that governed the various giant races known as the Ordning was abolished, circa 1485 DR, the corpse of the storm giant Queen Neri was discovered amongst the Red Rocks by Imperator Uthor. The queens death was greatly upsetting to the royal storm giant family, especially King Hekaton, and set in motion a series of events that altered the giant populations of the North.
* Hall of Reflected Moonlight, the hidden chapterhouse of the Selûnite Order of the Blue Moon. It perched atop a jagged spur at the southern side of the archipelago.
* Alsapirs Rock, a former lair of the copper dragon Gaulauntyr and afterward occupied by a deepspawn and its offspring.
One of the isles of the Red Rocks had a small cave that housed the treasure of the (not so) famous Sword Coast pirate, Captain Silbarr Snake-Eyes. The broken mast of a shipwreck, only visible at low tide, pointed out the cave in question.