The Rift Between Worlds was an immense portal opened between the world of Eberron and the Demonweb Pits, which became part of Lolths War of Everlasting Darkness in the 1480s DR.
300px|thumb|The Spinners Prison, being sucked into the Demonweb.
In the late 15 century DR, Lolth sought to seize the role of goddess of magic and accumulate as much power as possible. One such scheme involved the demonic overlord of Eberron known as the Spinner of Shadows, who languished in the Spinners Prison in the underworld of Khyber. Using the Lords of Dust to create a cult, the Spinner had them gather up dragonshards and weaken her bindings. Though the forces of the Silver Flame arrived to stop them, the prison was broken and the Spinner tore open a hole to the Demonweb Pits. Lolth beckoned her in and departed, leaving the Rift open and inexorably expanding. Though the Church of the Silver Flame, the Gatekeepers, and the Twelve worked to contain it, the Rift was simply too large and unstable to be stopped.
The Gatekeeper Tavnar Kronnak sent a team of bold adventurers through the Rift in the hopes of finding a way to stop it, which led to a strange and extended adventure through the Demonweb Pits and eventually into the unknown realm of Cormyr in Faerûn, which was also a victim of Lolths malice. The adventurers helped defend against the Sschindylryn invasion of Eveningstar, and eventually returned to the Demonweb to fight Lolth in her own domain. Working with the sage Valanna, they were sent back to the Rift at the very doorstep of Eberron to perform a kind of blood ritual that would attenuate its expansion enough that it stabilized. The Rift was heavily guarded by Lolths minions, including the draegloth champion Khaszlokhar, who watched over the Rift as well as an Orb of Lolth. He fell upon the adventurers while they were weakened by their own sacrifices, but the Eberronians were able to kill the draegloth, stop the Rifts expansion, and capture the Orb of Lolth before escaping. Though the Rift remained for the time being, it was no longer an existential threat to Eberron.