Rothé Valley was a region of the Sword Coast North that comprised verdant farmlands and wilderness that was rich with life.
Rothé Valley comprised a number of small villages and farmhouses situated around a well-secluded village. Despite living in separate farms, its people part of a larger community that shared a common way of life.
300px|One of the numerous farms that made up the landscape of Rothé Valley
The valley was situated north of Neverwinter, and its lush fields were provided abundant water from the Never River. Its numerous farms and rural settlements were situated along the stretch of the High Road that connected Neverwinter to Cragmire Keep further north.
As of the late 1490s DR, the famers of Rothé Valley looked to the senior Gunderson for leadership, a retired adventurer who served as mayor of Rothé Valley Village.
Circa that same time, Rothé Valley was under the protection of the Neverwinters Rangers, among them the vigilant elf Dassar Truebow.
Throughout Present Age, dating back at least to the mid–12 century DR, drow raided the villages and farms of Rothé Valley to capture slaves for their cities in the Underdark. Groups like the Emerald Enclave led forays into the drow slave tunnels in order to rescue these poor souls, but were not always successful. One such group sought to warn the surface world above in the , but were ultimately unsuccessful and the journals they kept about their forays into the Underdark were left behind.
During the early 15 century, in the , a tunnel opened up within the valley that some believed was a lingering effect of the Spellplague that ravaged Faerûn some 40 plus years prior. It turns out the tunnel was formed by a wandering wizard named Rucksam in order to more easily access some local farms, in a bat made with an old farmer named Fergus Gunderson.
Over half a century later, in the , a group of drow slavers led by Slave Lord Malaggath of House Xorlarrin established a hidden camp within a canyon that overlooked Rothé Valley. They captured villagers from local farms and sparsely-defended settlements, enslaving them in preparation for trade in the Underdark. Rothé Valley Village itself was threated by scores of drow-controlled spiders, among them the enormous arachnid referred to as the Daughter of Lolth.
The whole drow expedition against the valley was led by SarkonIss, a drider prince from the city beneath Rothé Valley. House Xorlarrin sought to cease the endless cycle of slave-gathering and establish a permanent, above-ground settlement in the region, The drow slavers were driven away by the Hero of Sleeping Dragon Bridge, working alongside Mayor Gunderson himself, a ranger from Neverwinter named Dassar Truebow, and even the surface-dwelling drow named Imbross IrriKarr.
In the mid–1480s DR, a cell of the Cult of the Dragon sprang up in Rothé Valley. The Hero Sleeping Dragon Bridge returned to the area to investigate these cultists and their mysterious jars filled with lightning, and eventually defeat the blue dragon Venfithar.
As of the late 13 century DR, local stories spoke of "shadow-people" that came up from underground areas to abduct people in the dead of night.
* Rothé Valley Village, the areas largest village and home to the presiding mayor.