Rothé Valley Village was the most prominent of the villages and farms in Rothé Valley as of the late 15 century DR.
The village itself was positioned on the High Road, not far from the nearby Never River.
Befitting a small settlement of the North, the village was led by a single mayor elected from among the local community.
The village was founded in the late 13 century, in the . Following the cataclysmic events of the Spellplague a century later, when the High Road around Neverwinter was cut off, the village was largely forgotten about by the surrounding world.
Strangely enough, a mysterious tunnel appeared near town in the . Baffled by its sudden appearance, local townsfolk went to investigate, only to learn it was formed by the traveling wizard Rucksam on a drunken bet with a old farmer.
As the city of Neverwinter entered a period of reconstruction during the latter half of the 15 century, Rothé Valley and its village came to provided much-needed food to the increasing number of people that called the city home.
As the greater Rothé Valley faced raids from drow slavers in the , the village itself was overrun by spiders that were controlled by the dark elves. Some folk boarded themselves up in their homes, while others were not so fortunate and were captured or worse. While some drow used magical means to hold hostage family members of Mayor Gunderson under the guard of the Daughter of Lolth, others formed a web of dark energy over the town while deathweavers prepared some sort of horrific, dark ritual involving the captured townsfolk that would aide Lolths efforts to create a new form of the Weave under her control.
Fortunately for Rothé Valley Village, Neverwinters Rangers along with Mayor Gunderson worked together to elicit the aid of an adventurer from Neverwinter to defeat the Drow expedition, and take the fight to their home in the Underdark.
Throughout the Present Age, rumors in town circulated about "shadow-people" emerging at night to kidnap villages and abduct them away from town.