Castle Sadrach
Sadrachs Splinter, also known as Sadrachs Spire and formerly known as Castle Sadrach, was a rocky mesa and fortress located in the middle of the Underchasm. It was the domain of the plaguechanged spellcaster Sadrach, an individual who spent much of his time studying the magic of the elements. The spire was a place of great importance during the time of the Second Sundering, a place where several of the gods chosen came together to save the world as they knew it.
While the bottom portion of the spire was a rock formation coming out of the great pit, the upper reaches comprised a stone castle. The entrance to the castle was behind a pair of gates, accessible by a small grotto set within the spire.
Within the spire, underneath the castles catacombs, were a series of temples dedicated to the elemental lords, one called Grumbars Temple.
right|Map of Sadrachs Splinter in the Underchasm
The spire was connected to a dozens of earthmotes, by means of translucent cables and seemingly-indestructible suspension bridges,
During the events of the Spellplague, in the , Sadrach remained in his castle with his people, confident that his magic would protect them all from the cataclysm. Unfortunately he was wrong, the Underchasm opened up in the earth around the castle, and the residents within were transformed into spellscarred, plaguechanged, or worse. Sadrach himself became drastically altered so that he became part of the stone of the castle, appearing as four stone faces and pairs of hands, furiously casting powerful magic at any trespasser that dared come near.
Just over a century later during the Second Sundering, in the , four of the gods chosen (Kleef Kenric of Helm, Malik el Sami of Cyric &ltMyrkul&gt, Joelle Emmeline of Sune and Arietta Seasilver of Siamorphe) traveled to the spire, in order to place the Eye of Gruumsh within the altar of the subterranean temple of Grumbar.
While the group succeeded, they suffered great loss and Sadrach Castle was destroyed by one of Shars agents to reach Grumbars Temple. The surrounding Underchasm was restored to its earthly form since the Spellplague. Sadrach and the wallbound were freed from their stony prison, given a second chance at life in the Realms.
The spires most notable residents were Sadrach himself, and his granddaughter Gingrid, both of whom called the castle their home for over a hundred years.
During the Spellplague, many of those who lived in Sadrachs Splinter were transformed into beings referred to as the "wallbound".