The Shining City of Samargol, also known as the City of Veils, was the capital city of Samarach. It guarded the entrance of the River Samar leading into the heart of the country.
Samargol stood on the eastern bank of River Samar. It was a tropical city filled with lush greenery. The citys Samar Bay docks were the center of trade for the city and the entire country. Docks stood outside the city walls and had sharpshooter guards overlooking the district from atop the same walls. Samargol was home to proximately a quarter of Samarachan population.
Both males and females of Samargol often wore masks and veils in public. However, this was not the reason for the metropoliss name – the City of Veils. The name was in reference to numerous complex weaves of Nimbrese illusion magics that permeated Samargol. These spells made the city appear as nothing more than a hamlet with a humble keep in the middle. Once a visitor entered the city, the splendorous reality revealed itself – many called it the greatest city in Faerûn. However, that might also be an illusion.
A ring of fortified double walls encircled the city. The outer wall was built around the citys outer districts, while the inner wall protected a hilled area of Samargol – the home of nobility and the High Phantasmages palace. The outer wall had three small gates that opened into the city. One gate was on the northern part of the wall and stood on the route that led directly to Taruin. The second gate faced the east and opened into the road towards Rassatan and Sorl. The third gate opened into the river allowing trade barges to enter and leave the city.
The inner wall had no gates, and only those who could fly by magical means were able to enter or leave the wealthiest district in all Samarach. Most nobles and aristocrats traveled via fly spell or rode pegasi. A series of underground passages were dug underneath the rich district, but its use was strictly forbidden and highly illegal, same as climbing the inner wall.
thumb|The location of Samargol on the 311x311px
Samargol was a city located on the Wild Coast of the Chultan Peninsula,  to the immediate east from the Snout of Omgar at its base, and on the mouth of River Samar. Samargols major neighboring cities were Taruin, 10 miles to the north along the River Samar and Rassatan further east along the Wild Coast.
The city had a population of tucans and other colorful tropical birds.
The seat of power in Samargol and the entirety of Samarach belonged to the High Phantasmage and the Council. The title of the High Phantasmage was rotational between the archmages of Nimbran. Each individual High Phantasmage reigned from just a few years to several decades. At the end of the High Phantasmages rule, the tone along with the title were passed along to the next archmage. The ruler in the 1373 DR was Archmage Meleghost Zoaster whos reigned for many years and many rumors circulated in Samargol that he was not planning to return to Nimbran.
The Mercantile Affairs Committee controlled all trade activities in Samargol. Leaders of local trade companies, big and small, had to file paperwork with the Committee to legalize such events as an employees dismissal.
The trade in Samargol was done via sea, river, and land. Each entering and leaving wagon or ship was searched physically by the guards and with the help of magics. Imported goods from other regions of Faerûn were priced at triple the average cost in Samargol due to trade restrictions and scarcity.
thumb|Samargols Elite Guard.
Like the entirety of Samarach, the city of Samargol was ruled by fear and mistrust of the dreaded yuan-ti. Society was consumed by the paranoia of the snake folk taint, corruption, and infiltration. Because of that mistrust was a cultural norm and was present even between friends or family members. The yuan-ti spies and even those who simply were accused of association with the serpents were punished swiftly and with extreme prejudice. The accused were taken to Samargol to stay trial, and the defendants rarely were acquitted.
The majority of Samargols nobility were Nimbrese. They stood above Chultans and Tashlutans on the social ladder. This cultural divine sparked no unrest nor rebellion.
Outsiders were unwelcome in Samargol. The entirety of the city was closed off for anyone but the locals, while only one district – the Openpalm Bazaar, was open to visitors, merchants, and select individuals approved by the High Phantasmage.
Following the Time of Troubles, the Church of Leira established a hold in Samarach and its capital (in reality, Cyric was worshiped under Leiras guise). Big numbers of Leiran clerics settled in Samargol by the late 14 century DR, after Nimbral banned the concept of the state religion in the Seahaven. After Waukeens return to the planes in 1370 DR, her church experienced renaissance. The clergy established solid hold in the cities of
Samarach and the capital of Samargol – a city of prevalent mercantile activity.
Adult men and women were expected to take arms in defense of Samargol if the need arose. Spellcasters were well-regarded. Among them, those capable of weaving illusion were the most respected.
The city of Samargol and the countrys trade routes were protected and patrolled by Samargols Elite Guards. These men and women were highly trained warriors, dressed in ornate brass and leather chainmails and covered their faces with chainmail veils. The patrols often included silk-robed arcane spellcasters.
Sometime before the 14 century DR, a band of dreaded yuan-ti was unmasked among the citizens of Samarach. The revelation led to a widespread panic and paranoia. Despite the fact that most of the snakefolk in Samargol were believed to have been exterminated, the fear and mistrust remained, becoming part of the nations everyday culture.
Following the magical cataclysm of the Spellplague, Samargol was presumed destroyed and most of Samarach, Thindol, Tashalar, and Lapaliiya were claimed by the sea. By the late-15 century DR, the devastation of the Spellpague was fixed by the return of Mystra, the Goddess of Magic. The drowned lands were returned to the surface. However, the fate of Samargol was shrouded in mystery as illusions covered the land of Samarach making the country truly "The Hidden Kingdom".
thumb|Streets of Samargol.|311x311px
*Leiras Trick, the only inn and tavern in the city that allowed outsiders in as of the late 14 century DR.
*Openpalm Bazaar, the only district open to visiting traders and merchants. It was the center of commerce, and an open-air market, surrounded by shops, temples, and other hives of mercantile activity.
*A shrine of Waukeen could be found in the Openpalm Bazaar, it offered healing services to the visitors of the City of Veils.
*Dajos, a Captain of Samargols Elite Guard circa 1373 DR.
*Irim Mendar, a charismatic dealer of enchanted arms and armor in the late-14 cemetery DR.
*Kureen, a Lady of Samargol who patronized a handful of merchants across the settlements of Samarach in the late-14 cemetery DR.
*SaSani, a prosperous merchant and secretly a yuan-ti pureblood whose merchant company operated out of Samargol and had trade affiliations with the Sword Coast North circa 1373 DR.
*Church of Waukeen maintained a shrine in the citys Openpalm Bazaar, staffed with several members of the Merchants Friend clergy.
*Crafters Guild, the local gold that offered its halls and supplies for trade to visitors.