Saradush was a metropolis within the land of Tethyr.
thumb|Saradush and the surrounding area.
Once a great bureaucratic center for the citys royal dynasty, Saradush became a producer of agricultural products for trade. Despite this, Saradush became an important waystation for trade in the area surrounding the Lake of Steam. Given its proximity to several kinds of terrain, along with increased prominence as trade traffic with Riatavin rises, 
In 1368 DR the fire giant Bhaalspawn Yaga Shura, leading his mercenary army, besieged the city of Saradush, briefly occupied by his weaker siblings and Calishite forces under command of the half-orc Bhaalspawn Gromnir Il-Khan. Finally another child of Bhaal Abdel Adrian defeated the giant commander but Saradush was left a smoking ruin as a result of the conflict.
During the last Rage of Dragons, in 1373 DR, a brass dragon who laired nearby attacked and destroyed much of the city before being killed by the city guard and a pair of wizards.
Saradush fell into a period of decline following the Spellplague.
Lord Mayor Tanithe Beyross was the current elected leader of Saradush. However Lord Oon Santele, Count of Surkazar is the true leader behind the Beyross.
The Saradush Guard boasted 200 members and was adequate to resolve most disturbances within the walls of the city. If more help is needed, it was usually found in the form of ex-adventurers or mercenary citizens of the city.
Saradush was unusual as there were no major temples within the city. Those people who regularly worshiped did so in small shrines within their own homes. There were a few temples just outside the citys borders, such as that dedicated to Beshaba in the hills to the east.
Despite being somewhat neglected, this tavern maintained good fare as its owner mourned the loss of his only child.
One of the Guard barracks in the base of a tower contained a portal that was only active when it was raining in Saradush. It was located in the doorway between the general sleeping quarters and the stairway up to the parapet. The first mysterious disappearance happened sometime after the portal was created in the , and it took three more such vanishings before the soldiers figured out the "rainy day" conditions to activate it. Thereafter, it was named the Raingate and the barracks became known as Raingate Tower. The doorway was carefully avoided when the weather turned damp, but no one in Saradush knew that the doorway lead to the Crystal Labyrinth in Undermountain, beneath Waterdeep.