The Fortress of Sentinelspire, also known as the Fortress of the Old Man or simply Sentinelspire, was a fortress hidden in the eponymous mountain. Originally Imaskari, a priest of Bhaal had taken up residence there to create an order of assassins.
The Fortress of Sentinelspire was a compound hidden within a deep ravine in the mountain. Some of it was natural, but some of the structure appeared to be cut into the stone. The buildings within were all of a decidedly purple-tinged stone, with outer walls full of odd angles and interlocking designs. The fortress had slots carved into the corners of some of its rooms, through which air was circulated from portals to the Elemental Planes. This made the fortress remain cool in summer, and warm in winter. They were also a source of water. Statues, some beautiful and some strange, littered the entire fortress, most made of stone, but some out of a silvery metal.
By , almost every building in Sentinelspire had been covered by lush, riotous vegetation, making it tough to see the stone in places, and many kinds of exotic birds were kept in the fortress.
thumb|A map of a complex hidden in a crevice within a mountain. Opposite the entrance, there is a waterfall in the middle, there is a widened canyon with a number of buildings, and streets crisscrossing them.
The outer gate was decorated with a monstrous, leering face, the entrance itself being its jaws, while its blank eyes stared down at those who entered. There were a series of labirynthine tunnels between the Gate and the Gallery of Stone Faces.
The Gallery of Stone Faces was a huge cavern past the tunnels leading to the Outer Gate, bigger than many castles courtyards, illuminated by thin streams of sunlight falling in from a ceiling far above the ground. Dozens and dozens of statues sat in the Gallery, most of them hideously demonic. Rasping stone sounds were normal there the Gallery of Stone Faces was warded.
The main gate was an arch, with different carvings on each side. One side was all long-haired maidens, and the opposite side was handsome men, whose braids and beards were carved in the style of Imaskar. Each sides outstretched arms both both reached out to the other and bid welcome to those who entered. Thirty paces in, it became too dark to see anything.
The Tower of the Sun was at least  high, extending well over the crack of the canyon. Its stone walls appeared as though made of braided stone pillars. By , the stone had been covered in winding vines, flowers, trees, and other greenery, with some of the flowers reaching the size of shields. People attuned to nature, including Lewan, Berun, and even Sauk could feel it was antinatural.
Alaodin had renovated the tower, placing priceless rugs, tapestries, and furniture on the Tower of the Sun. Chereths power had instead filled the tower with vines, ivy, old leaves, and moss and lichen so old that some of it had already worked through the floor. The shoots of young trees were visible at points, growing verdant even without any sunlight. The second floor was a series of rooms arranged like the spokes of a wheel. There was a door between the last step of the stairs and the third floor the greenery grew thicker the higher on the tower, as if it had grown from the top down.
The tower had dozens of rooms, some only small, some others which took up an entire floor, and a warren of cells beneath the tower.
The Eye of the Four Winds was named so by the Imaskari, who could see for hundreds of miles from around it. The stairs leading to the roof passed through a stone hallway. A stone table lay near the northern ledge.
By , the Eye of the Four Winds was overgrown with vegetation, visible from the ground.
The Star Fountain was named after the star blossoms that often dropped their petals on the fountain. The assassin Valmir liked to loiter near it, or practice magic. Though the fortress had became overgrown by , the oak by the fountain was old.
The Garden of Winged Steeds lay between the Dome of Fire and Murins Tower, where Lewan was hosted. One of the exits was a stone arch, covered in mistletoe by that same year.
On the night of Tarsakh 19 of , several blades loyal to the Old Man of the Mountain were slain while on a vigil at the Garden of Winged Steeds.
The Dome of Fire was visible from Murins Tower. It was a great domed building, ringed by stone chimneys. A narrow stairway dropped into the earth, leading under the dome itself, doubling back over itself three times, to an extremely dark hallway. A crystal on the right side of the wall controlled magical flame slots, no thicker than a thumbnail, lining the wide hallway.
The hallway was lined by several doors on each end. As of Tarsakh 20 in , the first door on the right was emanating a stink of charnel and rot there were two more doors on the left and one on the right. The second door had a mild sniffling sound coming from within. After a curve to the right, the hallway had a set of stairs leading further down on a passageway. The hallway itself terminated on the iron-latched, noiseless-hinged doors to Talieths private study.
Talieths private study was a room larger than most houses, though squat and low-roofed. Its walls alternated shelves of scrolls and books with drapes. The room was furnished with soft couches, rugs, and a plain table with four chairs at the midst. A hearth at the far wall held a brazier for incense.
As of Tarsakh of , Sauk had taken up his personal quarters here. He mostly used the squat tower, almost opposite the entrance, to keep his possessions he preferred the wild for actually resting in.
As of Tarsakh of , Talieth, the Lady of the Fortress, had taken up her personal quarters here.
During his time as a guest in the fortress, the novice druid Lewan was hosted here. on the inside, the rooms were connected with winding, round hallways, with floors made of black, reflective tiles.
A building that had been used for prisoners in  was overgrown and roofless by , with trees growing inside, the smallest of which was taller than its three surviving walls.
During the 14 century DR, the Old Man of the Mountain, Alaodin, ran an order of assassins that operated throughout the continent, killing for profit and to spread the worship of Bhaal. Upon Bhaals death, he adjusted to the loss of his assassins supernatural patronage and empowerment by including wizards and priests in his ranks. He also sought an edge through other means, amassing quite the collection of relics, trinkets, and artifacts. Though Sentinelspire came under new management on 1369 DR, the activities continued until 1374, when almost the entire order of assassins inside was slain by killoren and infighting.
Though per some sources the creator of the fortress and its complex was Alaodin,
On , the druid Chereth slew Alaodin, the King of Killers, and became the new Old Man of the Mountain. He soon acquired the fealty of the order of assassins that resided in the tower, and set about a plan of his own to trigger a supervolcanic eruption in the mountain beneath the fortress. Chereth was slain on , Tarsakh 25 the killoren minions he had been gathering to himself slew all but a handful of the assassins.
*Alaodin
*Chereth
*Kheil
*Sauk
*Talieth
*Ulaan