Sharrven was an ancient elven realm in the southern High Forest. 
The realm was renown for its tolerance, and was made up mostly of moon elves and green elves.
Sharrvens architecture was likened to that found in Silverymoon. Many buildings were made of stone and bore massive perches on which a dragon could alight. 
At its height, Sharrven encompassed the High Forest south of the Star Mounts.
The Elders of Sharrven steered the realm. Much of their focus in the early millennia of Sharrvens existence was dedicated to keeping the ambitions of the gold elves of Siluvanede in check, and preventing them from repeating the mistakes of ancient Aryvandaar. They were known to confer with baelnorns located at Nithrithvinaes Tomb. 
Sharrven boasted a mighty military which included gold and silver dragon mounts as well as exceptionally powerful wizards.
Sharrven was founded in -7600 DR by moon elves from Evereska, seeking to escape the overcrowded city, as well as moon elves (and a few sun elves) from Siluvanede, seeking to counter the overbearing and arrogant nobles of that realm.
As tensions rose between Eaerlann and Siluvanede, the Seven Citadels War broke out in -4500 DR. While Sharrven was at first content to support Eaerlann indirectly while the fledgling realm held its own, eventually the Siluvanedeen began to break into the ruins of Aryvandaar and equip themselves with Vyshaantar weapons.
The feyri would have their revenge in -2770 DR when they launched a surprise attack. They used their powers to create portals to send hordes of monsters directly into and all across Sharrvens territory. The rampaging monsters were eventually subdued by the forces of Ammarindar led by King Connar IV, although some of the beasts continued to propagate in the region for millennia. Regardless, by this time nearly all of Sharrvens settlements had been demolished.
The stretch of the High Forest which the realm once inhabited would continue to be called "Sharrven" into the Era of Upheaval,
The Srinshee claimed to have been raised in Sharrven, although many were unsure if this was the truth as of the mid-to-late 14 century DR.
* The fortress of Farsilver, located due north of Loudwater, still stood as of the mid-to-late 14 century DR, protected by powerful magic wards. 
* Nithrithvinaes Tomb, a tomb for members of the noble houses of Sharrven containing a twisting maze of family crypts.