Shimmersky Valley was a region in the Frozenfar that was a valuable stopover for travelers in the North.
Even in the snows and forbidding cold of winter, Shimmersky Valley was known as an unusually beautiful and peaceful place within the Frozenfar. Permeant residents lived in old shacks along the main road, while travelers along the rough and cold trails through the region often sought to take advantage of the Valleys relative safety to rest. Even so, the Valley could be extremely dangerous during the dark of night, and even during the day, the glare of the sun off the white snow could blind travelers and leave them vulnerable.
The Valley was accessible by braving rough hunting trails through the Frozenfar. The heart of the Valley led into Dragonscar Gorge, and passing through the entirety of the Valley was the only way to avoid crossing the dangerous and monster-infested Gorge for travelers heading north. Such passage through the whole Valley was only possible during the summer months when the harsh cold and heavy snows let up, otherwise the strong winds would whip up towering snow drifts that forced travelers along treacherous and maze-like routes. 
It was said that the peace in the Valley was maintained by the elements themselves, and indeed, it was home to innumerable ice mephits and bheur hags, all drawn to the region by the pure, elemental cold. Any invaders soon found themselves battling these protectors of the Valley. The bheurs in particular were know to whip up biting and roaring winds, causing maze-like snow drifts to pile up along the trails that stymied trespassers or steered them into traps and ambushes.
In the late 15 century DR, the peace of Shimmersky Valley was shattered by the arrival of the Frosthunger Horde, whose attacks on travelers blocked access to the Valley. Laying ambushes along the trails into the Valley, the Horde forced the Valleys residents to retreat, and claimed their ruined homes as their own. Upon hearing reports of these attacks, Open Lord Laeral Silverhand of Waterdeep sent adventurers to investigate.
After beating back the Hordes goblins, the adventurers fought through the Hordes fighting retreat and survived many ambushes laid in abandoned homes, soon coming into conflict with other members of the Horde (including bugbears and gnolls) as well as the endemic ice mephits and hags. Eventually, the adventurers defeated the bugbear leader, Broargarg, and determined that the Horde had invaded from nearby Dragonscar Gorge, and successfully cut off their reinforcements by seizing the entrance to the Gorge from its defender, the gnoll Yarach. The adventurers then continued into the Gorge, ultimately defeating the frost giants led by Shattercrown, who had driven the Frosthunger Horde into the Valley. In the aftermath of this conflict, the Horde scattered and some of them chose to settle peacefully in the Valley.
In addition to the scattered peoples who lived in the Valley and the more elemental defenders of ice mephits and bhuer hags, the Valley was part of the hunting grounds of the Wintergnaw pack of winter wolves, known to hound travelers incessantly.
* Grandmother Snow, the eldest bhuer hag in the Valley.
* Shimmerteeth, an ice mephit protector of the Valley.