ruins
Starmantle, referred to as the Ruins of Starmantle during the century that followed the Spellplague, was once a small, coastal city that was located on the Dragon Coast, up until the late 14 century DR, and resettled in the late 15 century DR.
Following its destruction, the ruins of the city and the surrounding landscape were covered by large, man-sized, gemstone-hard, emerald-colored outcrops that hummed with a single flute-like note. A flickering blue glow passed between the outcrops and obsidian masses slowly drifted across the open ground. 
Starmantle had an analogous city in the Shadowfell known as Elgrin Fau.
After being resettled, Starmantle was a village that grew around a caravan stop and a general store.
The city was linked to the town of Reddansyr and the Traders Road, by means of the Traders Road.
The fortress of Stormwatch was located to Starmantles west, situated between it and the large city of Westgate.
For centuries, Starmantle was one of Westgates main rivals for trade across the Sea of Fallen Stars. The competition made both cities stronger rather than lead to one of their downfall.
It was one of the few cities that housed smiths that crafted the magical pins worn by the agents of the Harpers.
In the early 1370s DR, members of the Night Masks thieves guild took charge of all the higher-end criminal activity within the city.
Beginning in the , Starmantle was inundated by flood of Shou humans from Thesk.
Starmantle was destroyed in the  by the Spellplague, when a conflagration of blue fire shot forth from a portal and ravaged the city. Just over a decade later, the city was little more than ruins.
By the late 15 century DR, Starmantle became a small village that grew around a caravan stop and a tent city in the citys ruins after an inn was built and a humble general store opened next to a warehouse.
Starmantle was one of the coastal cities along the Sea of Fallen Stars that boasted a temple to the primordial Istishia. 
It was also known to have at least one academic college.
Following the Spellplague, the only inhabitants of Starmantle were plaguechanged ghouls.
14 Century
* Adamar Session, a bard and teacher of history at the local college.
* Maeve, a half-drow archmage originally from Cathtyr.
* Tasso, the noted mage and author that dwelled in a cave found nearby the city.