Sulasspryn was a city in the Moonsea region until it suddenly and violently collapsed into a sinkhole in .
In its heyday, Sulasspryn was a major city and a prosperous seaport, but as of the 14 century DR it was little more than a broken ruin with only a few buildings left standing.
Sulasspryn lay on the North Coast of the Moonsea, known as a rough and harsh place surrounded by threats from the Galena Mountains, the ogres of Thar, and the untamed land of Vaasa.
Unlike most other cities of the Moonsea, Sulasspryn had a single ruler who was capable of decisive action&mdashone possible reason why the city prospered, for a while, despite the many calamities that befell it.
Sulasspryn was originally the site of a stronghold belonging to half-elven adventurer Sulass Drowsbane, established some time prior to the 400s DR. Over time, Sulasss stronghold attracted settlers and merchants, and the budding town became part of several caravan routes. In the , Sulasspryn was officially recognized as a city, with Sulass serving as its ruler. In time, his son Galadryl Drowsbane took over the reins. Power remained with Sulasss descendants throughout the centuries, being handed down to the firstborn male heir of each Drowsbane generation.
At its zenith, Sulasspryn was a major city on par with nearby Phlan.
At some point after ,This event is not given a precise date in Ruins of Zhentil Keep, but occurred shortly after the founding of the Zhentarim in 1261 DR. Sulasspryn and Hulburg were partially destroyed by dragons, then immediately sacked by orcs. The sage Elminster suspected this was an unintended consequence of a plot by the recently founded Zhentarim to establish themselves as a regional power.
Still, the stubborn inhabitants of Sulasspryn rebuilt, just in time for another calamity. In the , during the Moonsea War, Sulasspryn and neighboring Hulburg were both pillaged and razed by forces belonging to Mulmaster. Enough citizens and buildings survived the conflict that rebuilding Sulasspryn was considered feasible.
Only a year later, in the , Sulasspryn met its doom. The city suddenly dropped into a large sinkhole, collapsing in on itself and reducing most of its buildings to rubble within less than ten minutes. 7,500 lives were lost that day.
The cause of Sulasspryns demise was a complex affair engineered by at least two ruinous factions. Firstly, the citys founder, Sulass Drowsbane had made a long list of drow enemies&mdashas his moniker implied. Having witnessed the devastation wreaked on Sulasspryn during the Moonsea War,
At the same time as the drow dug their tunnels, a similar plot was enacted by the eye tyrant Alarkanamace. As a participant in the Vellurith, an ancient game of manipulation played among beholderkind, Alarkanamace sought to accomplish one of its goals to destroy a human city so that it is never rebuilt. The rules of the Vellurith meant that the eye tyrant could not destroy the city directly, so Alarkanamace had to trick others into doing the deed. It subtly manipulated duergar miners into digging beneath Sulasspryn, compelling them to lure purple worms ever closer to the surface to bore their tunnels. It also tricked the dwarven watermaster Burdurin Longhammer into believing he had found ancient schematics detailing a subterranean river diversion&mdashin reality just an area carved out and magically aged by Alarkanamace to further weaken the structural integrity of the area beneath Sulasspryn. Finally, the beholder saturated the limestone rock separating the duergar mines from the city above, then spread rumors of rich gem deposits beneath Sulasspryn to encourage its citizens to start digging. All of these events served to destabilize the very ground on which the city stood, and before long the city collapsed into the resulting massive sinkhole.
Whether the cause of Sulasspryns collapse was a drow revenge plotIt is unknown if these two plots interfaced with each other in any way. Still, the fact that Alarkanamaces scheme was rewarded with a boon from the Great Mother, the deity of beholders, indicates that its contribution to the collapse of Sulasspryn was substantial, and possibly the primary cause. Several members of the Drowsbane family survived, but none ever saw fit to reclaim their legacy.
The ruins of Sulasspryn were overtaken by forces belonging to House Mizzrym, led by Azanza Mizzrym, who used it as a staging point for nightly raids to the surface to kidnap slaves. Although the city seemed desolate and abandoned during the day, it came alive at night Sulasspryn was crawling with drow patrols, their summoned Abyssal servants, various creatures from the Underdark, and enormous quantities of spiders.
In the , Sulasspryn was the site of negotiations between the Cult of the Dragon and the Zhentarim
The ruins of Sulasspryn were said to hold great treasure buried beneath the surface, which meant that each year, at least one band of adventurers was drawn there. The fact that some of these adventurers never returned only encouraged their peers, as their disappearance indicated they had found something&mdashor something found them.
Along with the nearby ruins of Hulburg, shattered Sulasspryn served as a stern reminder to the people of the Moonsea that humankind was not entirely secure in the region.
A map of Sulasspryn post-fall.
* The Drowsbane castle was destroyed when the city fell, save for a single -tall tower. The upper third floor of this tower was filled with phosphorescent fungi by the drow that glowed so intensely that it appeared to be a lighthouse to ships passing nearby on the Moonsea. Unwary ships were steered aground so the drow could rob and enslave the unfortunate sailors.
* A white marble temple to Selûne lay in ruins after Sulasspryns collapse. Drow forces defiled what remained of its interior and erected a shrine to Lolth within. During three days of the full moon, the ruined temple was bathed in intense moonlight forcing the drow and their spiders away from the area.
* The citys Old Well was connected to the tunnels dug by the drow, leading to House Mizzryms primary outpost in the area and eventually all the way to Menzoberranzan.
* The many spiders of fallen Sulasspryn were concentrated in the citys gigantic granary, which had survived the destruction mostly unscathed.
Once a bustling city, the ruins of Sulasspryn came to be mostly inhabited by drow forces loyal to House Mizzrym, their various servants from the Underdark and the Abyss, and large quantities of spiders.