The Sunlit Wetlands, also known as the Putrid Bog, was a stretch of wilderness situated along the northern bank of the River Chionthar in the Western Heartlands of Faerûn. While it first appeared as a wild but beauteous bit of nature, it was truly a place of dread and misery, home to malevolent dark fey creatures and evil magic.
At first glace, the wetlands appeared as a serene and perhaps overgrown fen, ideal as a place to rest. This was merely an illusion however, as they were in fact a foul and deadly swamp full of peril.
The Sunlit Wetlands were situated along the river south of the Risen Road, just west of the village of Moonhaven.
300px|The large willow tree atop the islet of the swamp.
The swamp was difficult to navigate, with few muddy pathways winding through murky waters dotted and twisting vines. Dead and rotting trees choked off passageways as overgrown root systems sprang up over the mud and rock.
A rudimentary set of docks and wooden walkways were built around the southern end of the wetlands, with a bridge that extended out to a small islet in the southern waters. A single massive willow tree grew within the islet, the base of which was encircled with stone slabs inscribed swirling, almost pictographic designs. Several crumbling stone menhirs encircled the willow, their origin unknown.
A small flock of sheep grazed across the wetlands, innocently "baah-ing" at anyone that stopped close to them. These seemingly adorable sheep were in fact vicious redcaps with powerful illusion magic placed over them.
Large barbed bulrush plants dotted the wetlands, with tantalizing apples that were ripe for the taking. The apples left an upset feeling in the stomach of anyone daring enough to bite into them.
se plants left gaping wounds to anyone plucking the fruit not dexterous enough to avoid their barbs. If not treated properly in short order, these wounds could easily turn to rot.
As of the , the islet with the standing stones served as a secret dead drop site for the Shadow Druids. It was used by the druid Kagha to communicate with others of her order during her infiltration of the Emerald Grove enclave to the northeast.
* Riverside Teahouse, the quaint and charming abode of the manipulative and hate-filled green hag Auntie Ethel.
Several wood woads and a pair of ancient mud mephits made their home in the area around the great willow tree.