Surag was a small but crowded town in the Eltabbar tharch of Thay, on the shores of the Surag River that served as materials and food supply center for the tharch.
Surag was a busy town of mills, steep slopes, and cobbled lanes. The majority of buildings in Surag were homes of several floors, grist mills, mills for ore, and fulling mills. The town had humble inns and eateries of good quality but no taverns as they were outlawed long before the late 15 century DR due to brawling and debauchery. Guests of the town consumed alcohol at the inns, and locals preferred to imbibe intoxicants at home.
The Suraghran folk were millers who knew their trade and tinkered with the mechanisms, keeping them running. Thays government officials used Surag to shelter their friends and family members when they needed to leave the public eye following a scandal. The townies kept a somewhat cynical opinion of Thays politics, detesting the governments changes and the widespread corruption under Szass Tam in the 15 century DR.
The town was an orderly community that employed soldiers who policed the town and guards to protect it from monsters descending from the Sunrise Mountains in search of food.
Surag sat in the gently-rolling hills on the western side of the mouth of the Surag River, where it fed into the great Lake Thaylambar. The town sat on a road that connected the town of Nuthretos to the west with the Sur Road far north, where it crossed the River Gauros.
The tumbling waters of the Surag River were tamed by Thay, channeling the energy to fuel the towns many milling businesses. As such, Surag produced crushed ore, flour, and fabric from the fulling mills.
With time and Surags expansion, the town built up paddocks around the Surag River gorge, providing trade caravans with amenities, becoming a stop along the trade ways. The surrounding areas also became sheep farms and sheering pens that produced the towns wool. The sheep and goat farms eventually started slaughtering them for smoking and exporting, as well as candle-making facilities using animal fats.