Szith Morcane was an outpost of the drow city of Maerimydra.
Built into the side of a yawning chasm in the Upperdark of the Deep Wastes, Szith Morcane was connected not by streets and caverns but by a vast spiders web that covers the wall. Spun by an enormous spider which laired in the chasm, the drow were careful to only travel on the safe non-sticky strands as they are all too aware that those who get caught in the webbing were prey for the beast.
Established beneath the Dordrien Crypts in 804 DR, Szith Morcane served as a supply station for the dark elves living in Shadowdale, it also functioned as a staging area for raids into Daggerdale. When the drow were driven out of Shadowdale in 906 DR by Ashaba, the inhabitants of Szith Morcane lost interest in the surface world and sealed themselves away from it.
In 1372 DR, during the Silence of Lolth, the last of the Lolth worshipers from destroyed Maerimydra fled to Szith Morcane but were tracked down and killed by cultists of Kiaransalee. Led by Dorina and Zedarr Tsarran, these cultists then reoccupied the outpost with their troops and reopened the connections to the surface. Under the yoke of their new leaders the drow of Szith Morcane began raids anew on Daggerdale, causing Randal Morn to hire a party of adventurers to stop these raids.
After the defeat of the cult of Kiaransalee, Solom Nedrazak took over control of the outpost and permanently seale the Dordrien crypts entrance with a magical barrier.
Over the subsequent years, Szith Morcanes population gradually swelled with drow who had fled Maerimydra. However this ended in 1485 DR when fire giants, under the command of Hledh Hellspawn, marched on the former outpost and took control of it. This resulted in many of the caverns being collapsed and Solom Nedrazak was held captive. Hledh returned to Maerimydra with fresh slaves for the Coliseum and left Captain Fydor in charge of the settlement.
Szith Morcane was ruled primarily by House Morcanes matron mother. Prior to the Silence of Lolth, it was also home to six influential merchant houses.
Although in Szith Morcanes past it was a minor hub of trade in the area, even attracting drow from as far away as Menzoberranzan, after the retreat of Maerimydras influence on the surface in 906 DR it fell into decline. By 1372 DR, the settlement had become a quiet military outpost, attracting only a few traders from nearby in the Underdark.
Despite the presence of a decent-sized garrison and its sizable wizard school, Szith Morcanes unique construction was perhaps its most significant defense. Located on the side of a chasm, the only navigable way around the outpost was along a network of webbing. Any who stray from the few "safe" and non-sticky strands of web fall prey to a fiendish monstrous spider which allowed a dedicated web team to stick to the "safe strands" and patrol the cavern quite effectively. In addition, both the Inverted Tower and House Morcane were protected by powerful magical wards.
Along with slave caverns, a bazaar area, and well-defended barracks, Szith Morcane boasted other locations of interest.
Inverted Tower
 A tower so named for its odd construction of rooms branching off from a single central spire and the small, insular community of wizards who occupied it.
Fane of Lolth
 Primary temple to the Spider Queen before its inhabitants were killed by the worshipers of Kiaransalee, which was located in House Morcane. Former High Priestess, Alisannara Morcane, used to lead her priestesses in worship here. Following Hledh Hellspawns conquest of the outpost, it was converted into a shrine to the patron god of fire giants, Surtur.