Targos was a fishing town in Icewind Dale and a leading member of the Ten Towns in the 14 and 15 centuries DR.  It was the biggest of the Ten Towns after Bryn Shander, sitting alongside Easthaven in size.
The city sat on the southernmost shore of the Maer Dualdon, Paths linked Targos to Bremen (3 hours on foot), Bryn Shander (2 hours), and Termalaine (4 hours), the latter running around Maer Dualdon.
100px|A view from the Wolfs Pelt Inn to the harbor.
Targos was a sprawling town with uncluttered streets. The buildings had breathing space, being separated by wide avenues. While the inhabitants were used to the sense of privacy provided by these spacious accommodations, they gave off a feeling of solitude for those not used to the towns life.
This, however, changed by the mid-1480s DR, when Targos became abuzz with commerce and industry that brought the citys expansion. The newer inhabitants started to construct shacks beyond the citys wooden walls and the town threatened to grow beyond them before long.
Unlike Bryn Shander, Targoss nights were quiet as the fishers went to bed early, in order to be ready for the next days early rise. During the day, the Targosans focused on getting the job down and minding their own business, rather than that of everyone else.
The travel time for a merchant caravan between Luskan and Targos was approximately twenty-one days via the Ten Trail.
Though Targos and the rest of the Ten Towns were resolutely independent and competitive with one another, they did maintain a council with a spokesperson from each town to manage affairs affecting them all. Typically, in the mid-to-late 1300s DR, the smaller towns would follow the lead of Targos and Bryn Shander.
The heraldic symbol of Targos in the late 15 century DR was a black ship with a single sail and heading right, on a field of light blue. This was emblematic of how proud Targosans were of their fishing fleet.
250px|A battle against goblins on the palisade during the Legions siege in 1312 DR.
The town and much of the harbor was surrounded by a wooden defensive wall, called the palisade. Together with Bryn Shander, Targos was the only other of the Ten Towns to be walled. It had historically protected Targos from both barbarian and orc raids and other dangers from the wilds. The wall was extended over Maer Dualdon, to form a safe harbor. The timbers used were firs from Lonelywood.
The town was patrolled and defended by the Targos Guard,This is a range for all ten towns the specific figure for Targos is unknown. circa 1358 DR. They were outfitted with light armor but dwarf-crafted weapons. Circa 1489 DR, it comprised 200 militiamen and 16 veteran soldiers, led by Skath. Circa 1312 it was led by Shawford Crale and circa 1489 DR by Captain Skath.
Eccentric gnomish tinkerer Oswald Fiddlebender was briefly an aerial scout for the guard in the early 14 century DR.
250px|Ships at the docks of Targos on the shores of Maer Dualdon in 1312 DR.
250px|The lighthouse of Targos.
250px|The lighthouse at sunset.
The harbors deep water allowed the construction of vessels that were large for the area. As a result, Targos always enjoyed the largest fishing fleet, the best boats, a safe harbor, the most skilled sailors and fishers, and consequently the greatest catches. It thrived off and dominated the local fishing industry more than any of the Ten Towns. Like most of the Ten Towns, Targos specialized in trading knucklehead trout.
In the early 1300s DR, it already dominated the local fishing industry and took more knucklehead than any other town. In the late 1400s DR, it faced off competition from Easthaven (whose growth had stolen trade from Targos and Termaline) by focusing on its strengths in fishing
Almost everyone in Targos was connected in some way to the fishing industry and the core work of bringing in the knucklehead catches. Specialty craftsmen and traders provided supplies and equipment for fishing and sailing. The Dockworkers Guild of Targos was active circa 1485 DR. This was the only guild in the Ten Towns and spoke for the loaders, shipwrights, and warehouse workers. It sought expansion to the other towns to grow Targoss influence.
Built on the same lake, Targos and Termalaine were traditional rivals for fishing, oftentimes bitter, with fishers exchanging rude remarks and nasty glares when passing each other in the water and even getting into brawls, on rare occasions even leading to deaths. Disputes over fishing waters, crossed lines, blocked courses, bumped boats, scared fish, and poached catches were all causes for conflict. Their antagonism and suspicion of one another prevented them from cooperating long enough in any effort to improve the Ten Trail south to Bryn Shander.
In the early days of Icewind Dales towns, Targos was the most accessible, lying as it did at the end of Ten Trail, and it enjoyed being end-of-the-line for the caravans. However, when traders from the towns began gathering at a campsite further south, and this led to the founding of the newest, tenth town, Bryn Shander, in the late 1200s DR, where most caravans now stopped, Targos would lose something of its prominence. When the barbarian army under Wylfdene set out to destroy the Ten Towns and established a camp outside of Lonelywood, the Council Representative of Targos at the time, the person only recorded as "K.T.", sought out an assassin to aid the speaker of Lonelywood in assassinating Wylfdene and averting disaster. However, Purvis, the assassin, was unsuccessful, and Wylfdene died by anothers sword. To escape the shame of failure and claim the killing as his own, he murdered the speaker of Lonelywood and his wife.
In the , gnomish tinkerer Oswald Fiddlebenders airship crash-landed in Targos after setting the northern side of the town ablaze with a collection of potions that spilled off his flying ship. After that, together with his niece and assistant Maralie Fiddlebender, the gnome briefly settled in Targos, brewing potions and scouting the valleys of Icewind Dale for the Targos Guard. 
Later the same year, Targos was besieged by the goblinoid forces of the Legion of the Chimera, which sought to destroy the Ten-Towns. The Targos Guard built fortifications outside the town by disassembling buildings in Targoss harbors, but goblins infiltrated by breaking into old smugglers tunnels (which the Targos Guard had previously collapsed) and the basements of houses. The then ruler of Targos, Lord Ulbrec Dinnesmore, called for soldiers, mercenaries, and adventurers from Luskan and Neverwinter to join the defense of the town. But the Legions forces attacked and burned many of the arriving ships as they sailed up the Shaengarne, with only a few, like the Wicked Wench, making it safely to port with a group of adventurers from Luskan aboard. With the help of these adventurers, the town rooted out the goblins and survived several waves of attacks on the palisade, and dealt with other internal issues.
In the mid–14 century DR, the councilman of Targos was Kemp, who led the town through an assault by the Tribe of the Elk barbarians in the  and the Battle of Icewind Dale triggered by Akar Kessell and Crenshinibon in the . while others hid and barricaded themselves within their homes, preferring time and the elements to take the lives of the savage invaders. However, a few took up arms and actively fought Kessells minions. One of these defenders was the "Old Scout", the father of Pilot Demitrick. He, along with three trusted comrades, carried out guerrilla strikes on Kessells forces, targeting patrols and supply caravans. After three days of this, to find out who was responsible, Akar Kessell tortured several citizens of Targos, and then captured Pilots mother to force the Old Scout to surrender himself. Once he had them, Kessell killed them both as an example of his tyrannical will. Eventually, the siege was broken by the Companions of the Hall, who slew the evil wizard and destroyed the Crystal Tower. The Battle of Icewind Dale left Targos with an entire district of the city incinerated and blackened by the killing beam from Kessells crystal tower. The area was later known as the "Ash Quarter". though fortunately missed the ships where they lay in the harbor.
During his term as the Speaker, Kemp was distrustful of outsiders and guarded his towns interests greedily. Kemp was still the Speaker of Targos as of 1364 DR.
In the month of Tarsakh in the , a merchant calling himself Boswell Peddywinkle recruited adventurers in Luskan for an expedition to Targos and performance of tasks there the journey took 21 days. They stayed at the Wolfs Pelt Inn. They soon set off again, but would learn their employer had ulterior motives.
By the mid-1480s DR, Giandro Holfast was holding the Speakers seat.
In the late 1480s DR, four Red Wizards of Thay rode into Targos seeking vengeance against a local Harper agent, Edgin Darvis. Finding him absent in his cottage, they murdered his wife Zia, but not before she hid her infant daughter Kira in a secret compartment. When Edgin came home, he found Zia dying. The tragic loss led him to quit the Harpers. However, they would soon be joined by Holga Kilgore.
Naerth Maxildanarr, a rogue from Luskan, arrived in Targos circa 1487 DR and based himself in the Luskan Arms inn. He bought influence among the towns fisherfolk with his coin and a show of down-to-earth charm, and by 1489 DR had quickly risen to the Speakers position after the previous person apparently tired of the role. A member of the Zhentarim, Naerths goal was to dominate local trade and turn Targos and all of Icewind Dale into a hub of the Black Network in the north. His agent Skath meanwhile led the militia.
When Auril the Frostmaiden descended onto Icewind Dale in the , spreading her unending winter, Naerth, together with the Speakers of Bryn Shander and Easthaven, took the drastic step of holding monthly lotteries to determine who of the inhabitants was to be sacrificed to the Cold Goddess. At dusk before the new moon, the ill-fated person picked in a lottery held that afternoon was stripped off and cast into the freezing tundra to die of exposure. Accusations of rigged lotteries were frequent, but ignored. In any case, those thought to have cheated the lottery were slain by the undead assassin Sephek Kaltro with a blade of ice in the heart a human shipbuilder of Targos was one such victim. Under the tyranny of the goddess, Targos faced the harshest of winters. The bigger boats of the fleet were frozen in the docks, leaving fishing to be done by smaller boats dragged over the ice and limiting the food supply dramatically. 
Finally, in the winter of the , this period of strife culminated in an attack by a rampaging chardalyn dragon, a creature forged out of black ice by Xardorok Sunblight and unleashed to destroy each of the Ten Towns. With Naerths personal spy network alerting him to the attacks on the other towns, Targos had time to muster its militia and ready siege weaponry, though invisible duergar sabotaged these defense and murdered townsfolk. Fortunately, the creature was defeated by a group of adventurers and the efforts of the militias of the Ten Towns.In Rime of the Frostmaiden, the chardalyn dragons rampage proceeds depending on PCs actions, with it destroying towns in sequence. Since Targos appears in Honor Among Thieves and is the home of the protagonists before, during, and after these events, it could not have been destroyed, and was likely not even attacked. Nevertheless, in the worst-case scenario, Targoss buildings are destroyed, half the people are slain and half escape to Bryn Shander, and the militia makes a last stand in front of the Luskan Arms inn, but does the most damage to the dragon.
350px|Edgin and Holga have a frosty return to Targos.
In the early 1490s DR, Targos became the base of a trio of thieves Edgin Darvis, Holga Kilgore, and later Kira. In Targos, they robbed a pawn shop whose owner they suspected to be a member of the Zhentarim and made a smash-and-grab robbery of a jewelry store, simply breaking the window with a rock and making off with the jewels.
A map of Targos in the mid-to-late 1300s DR.
A map of Targos in the late 1400s DR.
The citys "Ash Quarter" was a neighborhood that was blackened and destroyed by one of Akar Kessells attacks using Crenshinibon. This area had been completely built over by the late 14 century DR.
Inns & Taverns
* The Luskan Arms The oldest inn in the Ten Towns. The innkeeper was a man named Owenn Tarsenel circa 1485 DR.
* Salty Dog Tavern A tavern located in a cove at the base of the cliffs, run by Gohar circa 1312 DR.
* Three Flags Sailing One of the taverns by the docks that served fishermen, ran by Ethen Yarbroul, lovingly referred as "Ma" by the locals circa 1485 DR.
* The Trip and Shuffle A rough tavern located near the gate and run by Russell, a former Purple Dragon knight fleeing from a death sentence in Cormyr.
* Weeping Widow Inn, run by Cahl-Hyred circa 1312 DR.
* Wind Gate
* Wolfs Pelt Inn A cozy inn and tavern, ran by Kalas Winters and his family circa 1369 DR.
Shops
* Gallaway Trade Depot A general store located in the main town at the top of the cliffs.
* Graendels Fine Dwarven Craft A dwarven smithy ran by Graendel Granitefist, one of the original inhabitants of Mithral Hall before its fall and reclamation.
* Market Square A square located in the center of town.
* Pendros Pawnshop A pawnbroker who did business out of a ramshackle building on the outskirts of town, later, turned into a bakery, known for its Endevver Buns in the late 15 century DR.
* Triglio A general store named after a local fishermens chantey, ran by Jestin Hunrae circa 1485 DR.
Other
* Temple Pavilion A temporary temple and hospital set up in a large tent during the Legions attack in 1312 DR. It was led by Denham Fisher, a priest of the Red Knight.
* Edgin Darvis, Kira, and Holga Kilgore, a group of thieves in the 1490s DR who lived in a cottage outside of Targos and frequented the Trip and Shuffle tavern