Tasloiomitasloi was a forested island located somewhere far from the shores of Ravens Bluff.It is never specified exactly what body of water the island is located in.
The islands name, given to it by the islands inhabitants, roughly translated into Common as "the place where many tasloi go to meet many other tasloi."
The most people creatures that made up the island were tasloi and a species of large bird known as giant gooneys. Beyond these two species the island was home to a variety of carnivorous and ancient beasts that were far less numerous, but far more fearsome. They preyed upon both the native tasloi and giant gooneys.
McGurks Academy a small para-military academy that trained the native tasloi in the art of seamanship.
At some point in ancient times the tasloi on the island had a civilization, but it fell to ruin. The tasloi would claim that the ruins leftover from this civilization were guarded by a horrible "giant tasloi," though it was unclear if the creature was giant relative to their height or a truly giant height like  tall.
Sometime in the 14 century DR, while sailing among the islands beyond Ravens Bluff one Spitvah McGurk stumbled upon the island and its native inhabitants. McGurk soon came upon an idea to take advantage of these natives, brokering communication with them and offering to take them out beyond their island home and its many predators. The tasloi were receptive to McGurks offer and over the next few months he established his academy on the island. Following their education, McGurk instructed the tasloi to capture a dozen giant gooneys and train them as mounts. Finally, McGurk brought the trained crew of creatures onto a trio of modified barges from Ravens Bluff, naming his armada the Flotilla of DEATH. From then on whenever heavy casualties were suffered, he would return to the island to recruit more tasloi into his armada.
The tasloi that inhabited this island were more friendlier and sociable than most tasloi found elsewhere in the Realms, but werent nearly as keen and clever. They had poor hygiene, a fondness for whistling, and worshiped a deity by the name of Loitasloitas.