Termalaine was the second-northernmost settlement of Ten Towns, and the third largest in the region in the 1300s. As delightful as it was, the town maintained a bitter fishing rivalry with the walled settlement of Targos. The city gets its name from tourmaline mining.
It was home to a great many craftspeople and shipwrights, whose work was placed on display with the fleet of fishing vessels that were owned by the town.
Termalaine was located on the eastern shore of Maer Dualdon, due north of Bryn Shander. 
The long-standing councilman of the mid-14 century DR was Agorwal, owner of the tourmaline gem mine. He was injured and survived the orc invasion sent by Akar Kessell in the ,
Speaker Shaelen Masthew served as the head of Termalaine during the late 15 century. She was a charming and shrewd woman who greatly admired her fellow council member Duvessa Shane.
Termalaines main rival was Targos, and their feuds for fishing rights on Maer Dualdon from time to time ended in bloodshed.
Historically, the area was rich in tourmaline mining.
In , goblins raided Termalaine. Were it not for the intervention of Clan Battlehammer, the town may have been destroyed.
The city of Termalaine was taken over several times by barbarian forces. The infamous barbarian Heafstaag had previously conquered it twice, but failed a third. During his last attempt, in the , Heafstaag and his allies tried to conquer all of the Ten Towns in one massive attack.
The attack by the Tribe of the Bear during the Battle of Icewind Dale forced more than half the townsfolk to take shelter in Bryn Shander, but the damage was quickly repaired.
In time of war, the city could call upon around 100 to 500 human militia who fought with dwarven weapons and wore lightweight armor.
thumb|250px|Map of Termalaine circa .
One of the quietest and most beautiful of the settlements in Icewind Dale, Termalaine had sprawling tree plantings around the widely scattered houses, which were placed behind rubble walls to protect the structures against the wind.
Inns and Taverns
* Blue Clam This fishermans favorite tavern was decorated with scrimshaw and trophies
* The Eastside This comfortable and spacious inn was among the best accommodations in all of Icewind Dale
Landmarks
* The gem mine, which was regularly close and re-opened depending on the activity of monsters coming up from the Underdark.
* Market Square, located along the harbor.
* Town hall, located a block from the Market Square.
Residences
* Agorwals House, a large house located near the center of town.
Novels
* The Crystal Shard
File5010_Termlaine.jpg
CategorySettlements
CategoryExports fish
CategoryExports gems
CategoryVillages
CategoryLocations on Maer Dualdon
CategoryLocations on the Bryn Shander Trail
CategoryLocations in the Ten Towns
CategoryLocations in Icewind Dale
CategoryLocations in the Frozenfar
CategoryLocations in Northwest Faerûn
CategoryLocations in Faerûn
CategoryLocations on Toril
inn1f7x44daflowxh6i1eebk3gfaov8