Zazesspur
Tethyr () was a nation in the Lands of Intrigue of west Faerûn.
Tethyr was bordered by Amn to the north, and Calimshan to the south. Its western coast was on the Sea of Swords, and pirates of the Nelanther Isles had long harried the kingdoms maritime commerce, especially as trade vessels bound for or returning from far-off Maztica. Finally, the Omlarandin Mountains stood to the east.
Large swaths of Tethyr were forested, and the forests were home to populations of wood elves, who are wary of humans.
Inland Tethyr was relatively flat, though not without hills. 
The Spires of Mir covered the southern highlands of Tethyr.
The Forest of Tethir was also known as the Wealdath and was located along the Trade Way, south of the Small Teeth Mountains. In addition to the Suldusk and Elmanesse elven tribes, the Wealdath was home to a variety of fey creatures and other dangers, including dragons, wyverns, and lycanthropes. Rumors also claimed the forest hid portals to the world of the lythari, a species of shapechanging elves, though only the lythari knew the portalss locations and how to activate them.
Barely considered mountains, the foothill area of the Omlarandin Mountains was known for its rare and prized omlar gems. These gems were useful in the arcane arts and could be worth large sums.
The Snowflake Mountains laid at the far eastern edge of Tethyr. The range held some of the tallest mountains in Faerûn and formed a natural border between Tethyr, Amn, the Shining Plains, and the Lake of Steam. The area was once the barony of Impresk within Erlkazar. The best known locations in the Mountains were the Edificant Library, a place of worship of Deneir and Oghma, and the childhood home of Cadderly Bonaduce, later called Spirit Soaring.
Lower than the Snowflake Mountains, but no less treacherous, the Starspire Mountains laid in central Tethyr. It is in this range, near the inactive volcano, Mount Thargill, that the few remaining dwarf clans of Tethyr lived.
Summers in Tethyr are long and temperate. Inland regions typically experience a wet season of about two weeks with heavy rain.
In 1369 DR, after a two decade (1347–1369 DR) period of civil war, Tethyr was united under the rulership of Queen-Monarch Zaranda Star Rhindaun and King Haedrak III (formerly "Lhaeo," the scribe of Elminster of Shadowdale). They were succeeded by their daughter, Sybille.
In the mid–15 century DR, Queen Cyriana and King Errilam ruled in Tethyr.
Anais Rhindaun ascended as Queen of Tethyr in the . As of 1489 DR, Anais remained as queen, having survived her eldest sister Zandra.
In the Lands of Intrigue, which included the nations of Amn and Tethyr, smaller settlements and port townships elected their own village lords, mayors, and harbormasters. In larger cities, however, local nobles and other leading families generally had the right to appoint individuals to such positions, and used them to reward investors and other distinguished individuals. Should an election be held, voting rights were granted to stakeholders, businesspeople, property owners, and warehouse or shipyard landlords.
In all situations, voting took place in person in front of the local herald. Votes were cast vocally and formally witnessed by a group of clergy comprising representatives from all denominations worshipped locally. Candidates for most offices could be any local residents. Votes were counted by pebbles tossed in jars each stone represented a vote and was put in the appropriate jar as the voter voiced their choice. These voting jars were labeled and safeguarded by the herald and witness priests. Election time could last as long as a tenday, but more commonly lasted for two or three days. All that was needed to win most elections was a simple majority. If tampering was suspected during counting, the new election was held, and local clergy performed the duties of the office until a legitimate winner could be determined.
thumb|The Tethyrian blade design.
Tethyr had been rebuilding steadily since the end of its civil wars, but it remained a cautious - even suspicious - nation. Groups with a tendency to interfere in the affairs of others, even the benevolent Harpers, often found themselves unwelcome. Despite having an arid environment outside the large Forest of Tethir, the majority of the population lived along the established trade routes.
Known for their tradesmen, exceptional quality was their focus rather than cruelly cutting out competition as it might have been in other cities Many works of wood, furniture, chests, and coffers were all made by or in copy of the Tethyrian fashion. Prosperous families dedicated themselves to one particular trade or good.
Land was the measure of status amongst the Tethyrians. Nobles either earned or inherited their land. Commoners were ruled by a count, who appointed local sheriffs to do various tasks, from collecting taxes, mustering a militia, and administering laws. They in turn were overseen by dukes, who reported to the Queen herself. The Queen had a council of advisors known as the Royal Privy Council, made up of her heir or crown regent, a selection of eight dukes of the lands, and five important and key individuals of varying religious and racial backgrounds the Archdruid of Mosstone, the Treespeaker of the Wealdath, the Hills Voice for the halflings, the Shield Brother of the Starspire dwarves, and the Samnilith for the gnomes.
The Queen was commander of the standing army.  In addition to the standing army, there were several knightly orders present in Tethyr. Sponsors included the churches of Ilmater, Torm, Tyr, and Helm. Of significant note were the Order of the Silver Chalice devoted to Siamorphe and the Champions Vigilant, sponsored by Helm.
Travelers coming into or through Tethyr were warned that five was considered an unlucky number.
It was common practice in Tethyr to take both hands of a guest as a form of greeting.
The people of Tethyr rested after lunch for the early afternoon.
Buildings constructed close to the Trackless Sea tended to be constructed from stone and brick with tiled roofs that were slanted, because of the heavy rainfall near the coast. Buildings built more inland were more likely to be constructed with adobe walls with flat roofs.
Clan Ithal was the source of Tethyrs first line of kings, one of the original seven warrior clans during Tethyrs First Age. King Darrom Ithal unified Tethyrs tribes and was crowned their king in -212 DR.
Tethyr fell under the control of the Shoon Imperium for many years, until Strohm I slew Amahl Shoon VII in 450 DR. He founded the Strohm Dynasty, which lasted until the death of King Strohm V in 832 DR, when the kingship passed to his son-in-law Tibor Mallorhen. The Mallorhen Dynasty was extinguished in 841 DR when the family was assassinated. Leadership of Tethyr passed to Strohm Vs second daughter, Queen Alisande, who began the Queens Dynasty.
The Queens Dynasty ruled Tethyr until 959 DR, when a cousin from the male line of Queen Sybille I seized the throne. King Mhoaran began the Lions Dynasty. While this dynasty was marked by much strife, King Errilam I was known to be a just man and was well loved by his people. After his death during a hunting trip in the Forest of Tethir in 1277 DR, rumors spread that the forests elves had assassinated him, leading to much elvish persecution from then on. The dynasty ended under the reign of King Alemander V in 1347 DR when Castle Tethyr burned to the ground during a coup and wiped out the entire royal family. This started the Ten Black Days of Eleint, in which hundreds of nobles and their families were killed.
The Tethyrian Interregnum followed this dark period, which lasted until the end of the Reclamation Wars in 1369 DR with the crowning of Queen Zaranda Star Rhindaun and King-Consort Haedred III.
Darromar was the new capital of Tethyr. This was truly the hub of the nation it was growing with the influx of mercenaries and monster hunters. Students of the arcane also had a home as there was a small academy for those not desiring to travel south to Calimshan.
Despite its smaller size, the town of Mosstone was of great importance because of its location on the Trade Way. Of additional note was its proximity with the forest, which made dealing with its inhabitants especially delicate. A powerful grove of druids focused on working with and instructing the townsfolk on the proper care of the forest.
Taking much from their neighbors to the south, Myratmas strong resemblance to Calimshan was obvious. This was the main port for agricultural goods to and from the inlands. Due to Calimshan being so near, arcane arts were seldom practiced and never in abundance. Of special note, this was the home of the Jaguar Guard. These noble warriors were exported from their home in Maztica far to the west.
Saradush was a metropolis within the land of Tethyr. Once a great bureaucratic center for the citys royal dynasty, Saradush fell into a period of decline following the Spellplague. Despite this, Saradush became an important waystation for trade involving the area surrounding the Lake of Steam. Given its proximity to several kinds of terrain, along with increased prominence as trade traffic with Riatavin increased, Saradush also became a haven for travelers and adventurers alike.
The critical city of Riatavin allowed for trade through the Sea of Fallen Stars. The formerly Amnian city was largely overlooked by Amns growing trade with Maztica and its Council of Six, which resulted in its secession to Tethyr in 1370 DR. Previously hidden wizards and sorcerers sprang forth in support of the secession, promising to aid against any actions from Amn.
The coastal city of Velen was a naval outpost, protecting against the Nelanther pirates. In addition, due to its coastal location, it was also home to a large seafaring and fishing community. It was rumored that ghosts haunted the city but the people appeared to be largely ignorant or uncaring concerning the hauntings. 
The former capital of Tethyr, Zazesspur was still on many levels the glory of the surrounding cultures. It was cut in two by the Sulduskoon River. The city was ruled by a council of lords. Similar to Myratma, due to its relative distance to Calimshan, any practicing the arcane arts were lured south with the promise of salary and an easy life.