Teziir () was a protectorate of Cormyr,
The city was still considered a frontier town by most people. Its growth had been haphazard. Very few roads ran straight for any considerable distance. There was also a considerable population that lived outside the town in shacks and tents. They provided many services, both legal and illegal, to the inhabitants of the city proper.
Teziir was mainly a trade city, run like a business by the Council of Teziir. This councils membership consisted of many of the same men and women who founded the city and they ran the city like it was their own personal property.
Teziir had an active group of 500 or so city guards known as the Watch of Teziir. They had a poor reputation as an exceptionally indolent and inept fighting force.
Teziir had a normal population of around 40,000, which swelled to over 50,000 in the summer period. There was also a population of prospectors and miners who plied their trades in the mountains outside the city. Their success was minimal, at best.
As of the late 15 century DR, Teziir boasted a large Shou population, a result of increased emigration westward along the Golden Way.
Several churches established temples in Teziir, including Azuth, Chauntea, Helm (whose faithful had the largest temple in the city), Torm, Tymora, and Tyr. There was no "official" religion of the city, though most of the ruling council worshiped Helm.
They regularly built temples and shrines to benevolent deities, believing that divine offerings and traveling pilgrims were beneficial to business.
The city was founded during the early 14 century, in the , by a group of merchants that wanted to stake their own claim to trade on the coast, independent of Westgate. It was built atop the ruins of a previously-destroyed settlement, appropriately enough also named Teziir.
Throughout its history, Teziir had been repeatedly assaulted, set aflame and sacked by raiders and pirates,
Circa the mid–14 century DR, the herald of Teziir held the title of Sundazzle.
By the late 15 century DR, Teziir had become a protectorate of Cormyr,
*Pelandros Peerless Shipyards, ran by Pelandro Rahavillar, maker of old-design naval cruisers in the late 15 century DR.
Temples
* Abbai Abbathor A temple dedicated to the dwarven deity of greed, Abbathor.
One of the prominent thieves guild of the Dragon Coast were headquartered in Teziir, a group known as the Astorians. This group plagued the city for some time, and was eventually infiltrated by the Night Masks of Westgate
The Men of the Basilisk slaving group were believed to have operated in Teziir.
* Aglasz Jhavildar, early 14 century sage of Teziir.
* Sladara Longquaff, a local shopkeeper and member of the Harpers.
* Thyxlys Jon, patriarch of the local Helmite temple.