Thorngap was a druidic circle in the Kings Forest of Cormyr. It was taken over by the druid Halsaime and used as his lair in the mid-1480s DR.
Thorngap was made up of several interconnected groves, caverns, glades, and other natural features in the Kings Forest. It included the dens of Thorn Hollow, where druids and beasts lived together, and the hidden sanctum of the Druids Deep. Some caves reached down to the Underdark, while others were filled with water and served as secretive passageways.
300px|thumb|The standing stones of Druids Deep.
Thorngap served as a home for druids and rangers in the Kings Forest for centuries. During the Sschindylryn invasion of Eveningstar, the druid Halsaime was driven mad by his cursed staff and used its power to forcibly control nature and his fellow foresters, intending to build an army with which to attack the world at large.
After the ranger Peron Uthe caused an outbreak of red musk zombies in Eveningstar, the Harpers Kirinel Zay, Tarim Inavule, and Jussko Kwahn arrived to investigate. With the assistance of the tracker Garstrom Toom, their agents found Thorngap and looked for Halsaime at his home at Thorn Hollow, but only found frenzied druids and animals. After fighting through the defenders, the adventurers found the dying druid Carm Woodrusk, who had resisted Halsaimes power and been lethally wounded. With her last breath she revealed that Halsaime was hidden at the nearby Druids Deep refuge, sending the Harpers on a final strike at him. While Jussko Kwahn scouted ahead and was temporarily petrified by Halsaime, the adventurers overcame his last defenders and slew him. The recovered Jussko then destroyed the cursed staff, ending the dire influence over Thorngap.
The respected druid Halsaime made his home there, along with a number of other druids, rangers, and dryads, who lived alongside wolves, bears, dire bears, and other animals. During his period of madness, Thorngap was filled with malevolent wisps, earth elementals, red musk zombies, wood woads, and vine horrors. The animals were driven into a frenzy, and many of the resident folk were forcibly recruited to Halsaimes cause. During this time the bog hag Aghilde moved into a dank corner of the refuge and made herself at home.