The Tun Marshes, also called the Marsh of Tun, was a swamp lying in the Tunlands between the Sunset Mountains and the Stormhorns west of Cormyr in interior Faerûn.
The Tun marshes enjoyed moderate weather nearly all yearlong. While the hotter months of the year were rather uncomfortable, springtime brought forth a myriad of blooming flowers and lush greenery that were quite the sights to enjoy.
The marshes were considered to be part of the kingdom of Cormyr, despite it being largely barren of civilization.
The expanse of the marsh could be seen from the nearby settlement of Eagle Peak, in the Storm Horns mountain rage.
Originating in the Farsea Marshes, the Tun River flowed south through the Tun Marshes, with few bends. The central portion of the river was bogged down into the low and densely vegetated marshland.
A great variety of songbirds made their nests among the trees of the marsh, including redwing blackbirds, meadowlarks, goldfinches, and swallows.
The lizardfolk of the Tun Marshes developed an advanced trading system for their communities, where they bartered away all the unusable goods they accumulated in their raids to nearby traders in exchange for healing potions.
Like the Farsea Marshes, it was believed that the Tun Marshes were once home to an ancient civilization, one that boasted great architecture that remained standing after so many years.
At some point, a large obelisk made of stone was recovered from the Tun Marshes and brought over to the Dragon Coast city of Proskur, where it became the centerpiece of the Standing Stone Inn.
The marsh eventually joined with the Farsea Marshes some time after the Spellplague ravaged Faerûn in the late 14 century DR. Together the two wetlands form the greater Farsea Swamp.
The region was home to many creatures both magical and mundane. But unlike the northern Farsea Marshes, the Tun Marshes were not populated by the same races of sentient beings. Instead it was home to the various lizardfolk tribes, and two known black dragons, the deceased Constulgrael, and the female wyrm known as Skurge. Other creatures that could be found within were basilisks, catoblepas, trolls,
Few reputable humans called the Tun Marshes home.The 3 edition Players Guide to Faerûn erroneously states the Marsh Drovers lived in the Marsh of Tun, when in fact they dwelled in the Farsea Marshes. The Tun Bandits held significant numbers in the marsh during the mid–14 century DR, last recorded at or around 1000 bandits. The mostly-human bandits were outlawed refugees fleeing the justice of Cormyr, led by their "king", Thaalim Torchtower.