Turmishite, Turmian, Turm,
Turmish was a democratic republic located northwest of the Vilhon Reach on the Sea of Fallen Stars. It was a densely populated nation, famous for its mercenary companies and fair-dealing merchants that traded across all of Faerûn. Despite the fame of its hireswords, the country itself was peaceful, prosperous, and civilized. Turmish had a good reputation, with its warriors, and merchants especially, being respected and well-liked. but for being something of an "overlooked backwater", it was known as "The Land of Surprises". While Turmish suffered many hardships in the Wailing Years after the Spellplague, it recovered admirably following the Second Sundering and the ending of the Great Rain in the late 15 century DR.
Turmish was shaped like an arrowhead, with the Orsraun Mountains on one side, the Aphrunn Mountains on another, and the Sea of Fallen Stars on the third.
The mountains surrounding Turmish had many active volcanoes. The Aphrunn contained Mount Kolimnis, the Orsraun contained Mount Andrus, and to the southwest was Mount Ugruth. Their periodic eruptions would play decisive roles in the history of Turmish, with Kolimnis burying the city of Gildenglade in , and Ugruth causing the downfall of house Gestin in Hlondeth in the .
While there were no large rivers in Turmish, there were numerous pools, streams, and creeks (known locally as "draws"), and the Alaoreum River ran from the Alaoreum Mountains to Evenstar Lake.
The coastline was rocky, as around much of the Vilhon Reach, but it became more gentle northwest of Alaghôn. On the northern coast, the seabed was very deep, so ships could put to shore just about anywhere, which was a boon to pirates and smugglers. After the Spellplague lowered the sea level and reshaped the coastline, Turmish was left with a wild and rugged coast.
There was little in the way of open plains, with only some areas south of the Alaoreum Mountains and in the mouth of the Perloush.
Running through the center of Turmish was an ancient road called the Halondar. The road began at Alaghôn, the capital of Turmish, and continued southwestwards through the country until reaching the City of Serpents. Besides the Halondar, however, there were very few roads in Turmish. Instead, the country was covered in a maze of small and meandering country lanes, mostly dirt roads, making Turmish a country that was easy to get lost in, even for invading armies.
Turmish itself was a verdant, fertile, and there were no good maps anyway, owing to the meandering road and wild countryside. Villages grew around crossroads, keeps, and temples, while hamlets appeared around wells, springs, and lakes of drinkable water.
The weather of Turmish was the same as that around the Vilhon Reach, namely sub-tropical and humid. While temperatures could drop in winter months, snow was rare On occasion, winters were harsh enough to block travel and trade for months and kill livestock left in their fields. Summer months were often very hot and humid, and spring came early. The humidity abated somewhat in autumn. The Turmishans described the climate as "one with the Reach", that is, as humid as the sea.
Blueleaf trees grew in Turmish, but were fairly rare. Broadleaf reeds grew in the waters along the northern coast, forming giantgrass forests.
Wildlife was abundant, with game like squirrels in the woods, fish in the streams and pools, and bears and goats in the mountains.  Ducks, grouse, pheasant, and other fowl were fed and allowed nesting grounds, and rarely kept in barns. Limited plains and predators in the forests limited herd animals. Once, there were wild Turmish ponies, but they survived only in captive herds in the Perloush.
There were also monstrous creatures such as bulettes, leucrottas, and perytons, as well as hybrids. Some of these were descendants of the experiments of the mage Tauthryn the Mad. Deepspawn were naturally common and could be found in isolated caves in the mountains.
It wasnt common to keep household pets and dogs were almost unheard of. However, people would feed fish or birds in their area. Small oxen, mules, and domesticated ponies were kept on farms.
Hills & Mountains
 Aphrunn Mountains • Bare Bones Hill • Mountains of the Alaoreum • Orsraun Mountains • the Orbrekh
Passes
 Lilit Pass
Cliffs
 Cliffs of Atin
Lakes
 Evenstar Lake • Lake of Drifting Stars • Starfall Stream Pool
Valleys
 Allascar • Evenstar Vale • Halondar • Perloush
Forests
 the Faraway
250px|A Turmian man and woman.
Turmish had a reputation for being populous, even crowded—the "hordes of Turmish" was a byword in other lands for a large gathering of people or things. But this was a myth, arising from its crowded neighbors in the Vilhon Reach and the tendency of the Turmishans to travel, especially their mercenaries, compared to more sedentary folk in other lands who thought them displaced for some reason. In 1372 DR, it had a population of 1,693,440 people, with 78% humans, 9% dwarves, 5% halflings, 3% elves, and 2% gnomes, as well as 1% half-elves and 1% half-orcs.
The Turmishan humans were primarily (95%) of the Turami ethnicity, with the remainder (4%) being largely Chondathan. The Turami typically had curly black hair and dark-brown, mahogany-colored skin. They grew tall and muscular, had flattish faces, and were commonly considered beautiful and graceful. A male Turmishan was typically  tall and weighed , with slender builder and well-defined musculature. Some thought they had elven heritage.
While most dwarves in the land remained independent in Ironfang in the Alaoreum Mountains and were suspicious of the humans after past wars, some lived in Gildenglade and Ravilars Cloak. Shield dwarves and gold dwarves also lived in the Aphrunn and Orsraun Mountains.  Moon elves and wild elves lived in Xorhun and Gildenglade, rock gnomes in Xorhun and Nonthal, and lightfoot halflings in Alaghôn and Gildenglade. Half-elves often avoided Xorhun but lived peacefully in Gildenglade. Firenewts dwelled in the mountains.
In the 1400s DR, Turmish was regularly visited by those making scar pilgrimages to the Plaguewrought Land to obtain a spellscar. Moreover, a community of kobolds settled in Xorhun, joining the elves, half-elves, and gnomes, while lizardfolk resettled Morningstar Hollows before moving on to the Wetwoods in the Shining Plains.
The common tongue was the Turmic language, which used the Thorass script.
By the mid-to-late 14 century DR, Turmish was a confederation of three city-states, each of them a democratic republic. The capital, Alaghôn was governed by the Assembly of Stars, also known as the Free Council. Members were chosen in free elections and every citizen, whatever their race, sex, or standing, had a single vote and was in turn eligible for election. In turn, the council would elect from their number a chief speaker, titled the Lord of TurmishThe position of Marcrowne is unexplained but implies a monarchical rule of Turmish. This predates development of Turmish as a democratic republic. Taken together, this article presumes Marcrowne is an alternative or older title for the Lord of Turmish. However, it may also be a separate position in the council, a council leader in a city other than Alaghôn, a noble title, or something else. As of , the position had been filled by Lord Herengar for nine years. In elections, candidates were nominated by their peers, rather than putting themselves forward, and terms lasted only three years. This limited, but did not eliminate, the ranks of professional politicians and their political maneuverings. The councilors, known as assemblymen, often had to work long hours and travel around the Vilhon Reach. As a result, it was not uncommon for a merchant to nominate and lobby for a rival to get them out of business for a few years and elected to a position they did not really want. Hence, for a few months prior to each election, politicians spent a lot of time praising one another in a reverse popularity contest. It was commonly considered the oddest political system in the Realms.
The other city-states had similar democratic systems and the country as a whole was well-managed The other cities of Turmish were free to govern themselves however they liked, so long as they paid their share of taxes and followed the laws of the Assembly, but in practice they were left alone to deal with their own issues, with the Assembly focusing on national concerns, namely the economy and defense. The Lord of Turmish had few specific duties their primary responsibilities were maintaining local and mercenary militias for defense of the realm against pirates and rival nations, keeping the waterways free of pirates, and generally ensuring Turmishs continued prosperity.
After the catastrophe of Spellplague, however, by the late 15 century, the country was driven to the brink of chaos by the competitive and desperate merchant costers. In practice, the country was ruled by wealthy merchants, albeit under the watchful eye of the druids of the Church of Silvanus and the Emerald Enclave. The head of the Assembly of Stars served as a chief administrator. At times, the Emerald Enclave seemed to wield more power. The country was a full parliamentary democracy, with each city contributing representatives to the Assembly of Stars.
Anton Marivaldi, a pirate from Sapra in Turmish.
The law of Turmish was based on the Code of Enlil. According to the letter of these laws, both piracy and smuggling were severe crimes. However, because of Turmish’s fragmented politics, enforcement was lax and punishment was unlikely. Furthermore, there were no extensive customs patrols in Turmish, allowing smugglers to operate widely. Nevertheless, the gnomes cracked down hard on both pirates and smugglers they caught, sometimes without waiting for human law to catch up. Even goblinoids were hard on smugglers, even executing them for "unauthorized" smuggling, namely, not letting them in on a cut of the profits. It wasnt uncommon for thieves, bandits, and other unscrupulous sorts fleeing the authorities, creditors, or rivals to head to Turmish, thinking to get lost there. Some took up their old ways and were disappointed, others were welcomed by the temples and left only with stories.
250px|Four Ghost Swords militia on patrol.
Well-organized mercenary companies and adventuring bands operated as local militias in Turmish. These watched and patrolled the borders and scout out the wildernesses, and so discouraged raids and monster attacks from the mountains. Any raid on a settlement was met by a well-organized and determined militia and a population focused on driving off invaders.
Similarly, the navy was a militia of privately owned vessels that could be commandeered as required to combat pirates. However, this also limited enforcement and led to piracy being overlooked, especially in the aftermath of the conflict with Yrkhetep in the 1350s DR, with pirate raids occurring in sight of the capital without retaliation.
For security of homes and stables, it was common to use sleep-needle traps, which were invented by Phindal of Gildenglade. Stone golem guardians and the like were known to have been encountered by treasure-hunters in the ruins of Turmishan cities.
However, the most unique protectors of the realm were the Ghost Swords, apparitions of swords that, on moonlit nights, led people to hidden bandits, those in need of rescue, or lost treasure. (They also prevented the creation of similar images of blades anywhere within Turmish, so there were no bogus Ghost Swords.) These inspired the founding of the Ghost Swords, a band of defenders who kept watch for threats to Turmish.
Turmish had a strong commercial partnership and alliance with the city-state of Hlondeth and Dediana Extaminos of the City of Serpents maintained good relationships. Circa 1372 DR, Turmish was peaceable with its neighbors, but wary. While concerned about the rise of Chondath, it was hesitant to provide aid to Sespech out of worry of provoking Chondath. Turmish did not start wars, feeling that, if nothing else, it was bad for business. For their fair-dealing reputation, Turmishans were welcomed all around the Sea of Fallen Stars.
Turmish embassies in several other nations and city-states, such as the Embassy of Turmish in Ravens Bluff.
While the wild western mountains of the Orsraun were home to goblinoids, kobolds, orcs, red dragons, and others, raids into Turmish were rare, owing to defense by the Turmishan militias.
A strongly mercantile realm, trade and commerce dominated matters in Turmish, but this was balanced by the dictates of the druids of the Emerald Enclave. These limited the cities from growing past a certain size, yet kept the people affluent and only a few being especially rich. On country estates they practiced coppicing, which involved cutting limbs from a living tree but avoiding killing it, so it would regrow in about a decade and producing higher wood yields than otherwise. Coppiced trees were distinctive by their many-trunked forms.
Circa 1372 DR, the nation exported salt and glass, mostly to Procampur and Tsurlagol, respectively, in the southern Vast. Its mercenaries usually traveled to Chessenta via Chondath. Grains and timber were produced and traded locally within the Reach. Trade and luxury goods were imported from the Dragon Coast. Metals were also imported. Turmishs food exports made it the breadbasket of the heavily populated Vilhon Reach. Dwarves of the Alaoreum Mountains traded their metals and minerals to Turmish in exchange for Turmishan goods. Dice carved from ivory in Turmish was sold in Auroras Emporium, as was the cheese known as Turmish brick.
Major sea routes ran from the Dragon Coast and Sembia to near the coast of Turmish, where they either proceeded on to the Alamber Sea or turned more sharply to enter the Vilhon Reach. The strategic location of Turmish gave it the saying "Turmish is the gateguard of the Vilhon."
Turmish was unique in the Vilhon Reach for outlawing the slave trade. Whenever Turmish won the Southsand Games, it freed the slaves it won.
As Turmish was a republic, the citizens often took pride in their pragmatism, their lack of elaborate ceremony, and general absence of aristocratic pretensions. The people of Turmish were generally unconcerned with wealth or status, instead judging an individuals character based on their merits and deeds, and ensuring they had good merits and deeds to be judged by in turn. Accordingly, Turmishans rejected any sense of social classes and special privileges these were almost unknown in the country, except in Alaghôn, which had contact with cities around the Inner Sea and acquired some bad habits. Not liking oppressive authority, Turmishans followed orders only when those orders made sense, had clear goals, could be done their own way, and allowed them freedom in future. If not, they would alter them, or else depart. Slavery was particularly painful for Turmishans, and they would struggle for freedom even unto madness or death.
They were usually well-educated, particularly in the areas of agriculture and business. Learned folk were respected and even somewhat admired.
Group marriages were not uncommon, with the women having a great deal of say. For example, Akash of the House Akash business married Akabar, now Akabar Bel Akash, becoming wife and husband. Later, they married Kasim, making her own business a partner of House Akash. They became sister-wives or co-wives and husband. Together, they wanted a third wife, but first sought to expand their business to have more money for the partnership.Azure Bonds says they wish "to earn money for the new partner", but its unclear if the money is for a marriage or for a business partnership. Furthermore, this merchant family may have additional business-based rules on marriages not followed by regular families. Akash and Kasim had the power to veto Akabars choice of wife. They later married Zhara, who enjoyed spending time with Akash and Kasim. Akabar, Akash, and Kasim had four children together. Among farmers faithful to Chauntea, two males and two females would be inter-married in a single family.
It was a wedding day tradition to gift a bride with something beautiful, such as flowers, poetry, perfume, jewelry, or ornaments. The type and cost of the gift usually werent a concern, except in wealthier Alaghôn, where folk had long focused on presenting gems, though they still favored look and size over value. Poorer citizens of Alaghôn typically gave pendants of blown glass, flawed gems, and rainbow or flame-orange-hued earrings. It was common for a married woman to give her wedding day presents to new brides, so some were passed down through the generations. Some of these bridal gifts could have originated as disguised stolen property, enchanted stones, or contained or imprisoned beings and lichnee life essences.
A married man wore a single sapphire earring in his left earlobe to indicate his status.
Turmishans in the countryside had an unusual inheritance practice. Rather than work and cling to their holdings as long as they could, it was common for farmers around the age of 40 or so to leave their farms to their children or inheritors when they reached the age of 20. Some went into semi-retirement and tended to smaller plots or woodlots, and others joined the farmland monasteries that were common across Turmish, but the majority left to pursue the life of a merchant or mercenary. These retirees tended to be patient, calm, and confident in battle or trade, possessing practical experience and the knowledge of having lived a worthwhile life, with their bodies strong from a life of hard work but not broken by overwork. Its likely that the Turmishans reputation as brave warriors and fair-minded traders came from this unusual inheritance practice.
Turmish was famous for its merchants. They were known to be fair-dealing, close-mouthed, and well-armed, Businesses in Turmish were often family-run affairs, and were dominated by the women in the family, with the men serving as little more than faces and traveling agents for their enterprises. Turmishan merchants often emigrated to Battledale in the Dalelands, settling there and contributing to its diversity.
A Turmishan warrior displaying her ornate armor.
Turmish was famous for its mercenaries and warriors, who were known to be courageous, honorable, impartial, articulate, and battle-skilled, and generally intelligent and charismatic. They aided the weak against oppressors, they never backed down from a good cause, and their word was their bond, and they were also excellent hosts and guests according to Turmishan custom. Being so well-respected and liked, Turmishan warriors enjoyed favorable reactions from those they met. They were also skilled in the ways of etiquette. Turmishan warriors were often conspicuous and stood out in a crowd, and were remembered by those they met—discretion or subterfuge were not their forte.  
Turmishan warriors were known to wear beautiful, ornate, and intricately crafted armor. This armor blended both human and elven styles and was adorned with spires, embossing, and raised and fluted curves on the joints and shoulder plates" / and often had a pointed helm. Often suits of splint armor with heavy steel shields, each set of armor, helm, and shield was decorated in Turmishan style and hence tended to be worth some 20% more than standard. All Turmishan warriors, regardless of their means or rank, kept their armor in excellent condition and adorned with embellishments. Armor was a status symbol in Turmish, and expensive gold inlays or gem adornments were not uncommon. Armor was valued as much as ones beard. Such resplendent armor also aided Turmishan warriors in being well-received.
Turmishan sellswords were so common throughout Faerûn that many people believed that Turmish must be overpopulated, or a place people wanted to escape from. The real reason for their ubiquity was that Turmishans were good soldiers and enjoyed adventure and travel in foreign lands. They typically worked and fought abroad for about seven years until homesickness brought them back.
Turmishan warriors were carefully groomed and often wore perfumes to cover up the smells of travel, fighting, and general soldiering and armor polish." Despite their pleasing fragrance and ornate armor, Turmishan warriors, like their countrymen generally, were unconcerned with fashion.
Turmish was a country known for producing heroes, with adventurers arising from the militias and mercantile families. Restless young Turmishans seeking adventure would often leave home for seven years before returning, often after serving as a mercenary in foreign lands. In turn, Turmish was a popular place to seek adventure in, regardless—or maybe because—of the scarcity of monsters to fight. Instead, ruins and wildernesses to explore and bard tales of lost treasures to seek drew them in.
A wizard of Turmish. Hes keeping an eye out for you.
Turmishan wizards tattooed their bodies with images of animals of different kinds. These were thought to give them power and as they glowed brightly when the wizard cast a spell, this might be true. In addition, they had a customary dress of high-quality green-and-black light cloth robes, often tied with sashes weaved with elaborate designs. They also commonly wore gold jewelry, particularly earrings and chokers. Naturally, they also marked their heads with three dots, with some tattooing three blue dots in a row along their foreheads.
Wizards, like other educated folk, were respected and admired in Turmish, so Turmishan wizards did their best to earn this respect and admiration from their countrymen, upholding high ethical and moral standards and tending to be of good nature. Turmishan wizards also gave much advice and their free time to their country. Turmishan wizards, like Turmishan merchants, were famous throughout the Vilhon Reach for being fair and honest, as well as wise, peaceful, and noble. They used their intelligence and magic to collect information to protect their friends and allies and keep away enemies. An accomplished mage such as Akabar Bel Akash would describe himself as "a mage of no small water".
As a result, Turmishan wizards tended to be diviners. They were talented in using divination spells to gather information, at 50% greater ranges, areas, and durations. They also excelled in the use of scrying magical items such as crystal balls, being also able to use clairaudience to listen through them.. However, the peaceful nature of Turmishan wizards meant they were even worse at close combat than other wizards, typically not undertaking any weapons training.
Turmishans were known to employ palm reading.
During the Wailing Years after the Spellplague, Turmishan wizards developed protective spells with a distinctive structure.
The people of Turmish had a rich history and developed culture, with many customs that others might see as quaint or even strange. and were friendly and readily aided their countrymen, even strangers.
However, after the devastation of the Spellplague left Turmish isolated and struggling in the 1400s DR, the people grew xenophobic, becoming wary and suspicious of strangers. Many of them were restrained and serious and they focused on business while neglecting social pleasantries, seeming gruff and ill-mannered. Fortunately, Turmish was enjoying a restoration by 1489 DR.
During the history of Turmish, the druids of the Emerald Enclave had an important influence on the development of Turmishan culture, at times forcefully correcting peoples missteps As a result, Turmishans had a love of natural beauty and enjoyed living close to the land rather than in cities. Turmishans dealt harshly with those that despoiled their land.
For the people of Turmish, standards of beauty arose from nature, not art, so they studied the natural world and its cycles, from the seasons to the moons phases. They had a knack for telling the time and the date just by looking up at the sky and out at the environment, even without seeing the sun. A landscape view was preferred to a painting, and a healthy body to a sculpture.
Large mirrors were outlawed in Turmish, owing to the fear of fetch, predatory creatures of the Abyss who used mirrors as portals to the Prime Material plane. An unsettling Turmishan folk song about fetch was a popular explanation for the ban on mirrors.
The game of dragons-teeth, although treated as only for children in other lands, was taken seriously in Turmish. Adults played all through the afternoon, wagered gold on matches, and took great pride in their skill.
150px|A Turmishan merchant with square-cut beard.
Fashions were not followed in Turmish, and they laughed at those who wore something inappropriate or impractical for the sake of fashion in other realms, such as adventurers wearing silk finery in the sewers or bright clothing when trying to be stealthy, or anything gaudy, frilly, or silly. Hence, basic fashions were slow to evolve in Turmish and striped robes were traditional. They favored practicality over appearance, and when it was very hot or humid, stripping off not unusual. Yet they had a love of beauty that they displayed in the clothes and armors they wore and in their tattoos.
Male Turmishan merchants customarily wore long, square, neatly trimmed beards possibly with a moustache. The phrase "square as a Turmishans beard" or "square as a Turmian beard", signifying that a given deal was fair or that a deed was properly or skillfully done, was common throughout the Vilhon Reach. Warriors of Turmish tended to be clean-shaven, so as not to be mistaken as a merchant. By the late 15 century, the Turmishan square-cut beard was worn by men in general, not only merchants and it was not ubiquitous either. Traditionalists continued to wear the beard, but it was not uncommon for men to go clean-shaven.
Like much of the Vilhon Reach, all Turmishans shared the custom of painting small dots on their foreheads in colored ink or chalk to mark whether an individual could read (one dot), write (two dots), or use magic (three dots). This custom originated with the founding of Academia Vilhonus in Chondath in the .Some sources say, such as Polyhedron #98, page 6, say one dot is for religion, in place of writing. 
Since Turmishans were known for respecting their land, they often buried valuables, partly as gifts to Chauntea and partly as "seeds" to grow future wealth. The burying of gold and gems was thought to make the land more fertile, yielding a more bountiful growing season and to one day return the riches tenfold. Burying was done as a personal ritual, done at a time meaningful to the one involved, such as on a birthday (ones own or a loved ones), a wedding anniversary, or the anniversary of the first day of ones business. It was usually only a handful of coins or gems, and buried deeper than a plough would turn up again.
However, this custom inspired the unprincipled to become treasure hunters and it was considered theft. A stolen treasure was thought to bring misfortune for the next year. Thus, it was frowned upon to be found digging for treasure in Turmish. If the thief wasnt caught and killed by angry farmers or merchants first, then they could expect to be convicted and punished with at least a year of hard labor. For a landowner to kill such a thief wasnt a crime, but self-defense.
The people of Turmish customarily brought a guest dish or greetings gift of good food to share when visiting anothers home, whether for business or socializing, as a show of gratitude for the hospitality. The value and flair of the gift varied with the status of the guest were not expected to spend much and no food was rejected. A peasant might bring a recently hunted squirrel, as meat was preferable. The more well-off would bring a flavored bread or a good wine, whether homemade or simply from their village. For the wealthy, typical greetings gifts ranged from a bottle of vintage Nimpeth wine, to the always popular skullcap treat, namely a bowl made from an upturned human skull full of snails. The snails were roasted over fires before eating. The skullcap treat was supposedly adopted from the lizardfolk. Once, humans and lizardfolk fought for control of the Halondar swamps before establishing a peace-pact, which was followed by a feast, and for their guest dish, the lizardfolk gave a skull filled with snails. Though at first the Turmishan hosts were horrified, it became famous and was celebrated in a number of ballads.
In turn, Turmishan nobles of the late 1400s often presented guests with a traditional dish of bread and salt, in the form of sourdough bread and a bowl of salt. In the town of Ayakar, which was well known for its sourdough, folk greeted visitors with the phrase "May your bread be sour, and your salt be fresh."
Wildfowl such as ducks, grouse, and pheasant were hunted for food, usually on the wing with a bow. These were usually taken in "the fall flights" to stock larders.
A block of Turmish brick cheese.
Some local cheeses included Turmish brick, whose reddish color originated from a local wine, and Turmish black. Flavored cheese-and-nut breads were made across Turmish.
From the overripe and winter-wracked leftover fruit of their vineyards, Turmishans brewed potent fruit liqueurs. A small amount was exported, and was tinted amber or red. The rest stayed in Turmish and usually clear as water, surprising a good few unwary travelers. Tea, meanwhile, was served in distinctive Turmish tulip cups.
Some desserts included the tart Turmishite apple and bloodberry pie and cranberry cake.
Food was never wasted in Turmish. What could still be eaten was dried, fermented, pickled, salted, or smoked and stored for the occasion harsh winter. For this reason, it was normal for people to have root cellars on or near their properties. Fugitives tended to use these as hideouts, but local militias and the members of the Ghost Sword knew to search them.
Turmishan wines were often so full-tasting, they were always consumed on its own with no snacks nor any other food. These wine were an expensive export found in the Western Heartlands and the city of Baldurs Gate.
To give shelter and aid to travelers, the Turmishans erected small cabins along the roads and trails, in the shelter of trees. Most were small buildings with space for five or six persons, with fireplaces and chimneys, but some included roofed hay pens in which horses could be stabled. These were free to use by anyone, but those who did were expected to restock any supplies they did use. Patrols of local militias checked these periodically and stayed in them when the weather was bad. Guesthouses were built and maintained by landowners on their properties, and they included stocks of food and firewood. They usually had friendly notices to guests out front and were as well-built, well-furnished, and well-maintained as ones own house. While vandals and careless guests were an issue, it was a point of pride to keep them in good condition—according to one guesthouse owner, "...a guest house is the sign of a mans good nature in Turmish, so I cant let it get run down." Some were built or ornamented in a whimsical or amusing style. The uniquity of guesthouses encouraged idle folk to travel Turmish.
Similarly, folk dug wells along the main road from Alaghôn to Hlondeth. These were roofed and enclosed, lit by candle-lamps, and were free for use by all. Militia patrols inspected and maintained these, including replacing the candles.
Archery was commonly practiced in Turmish, with many farmers being quite skilled with a longbow and proud of it. This was usually used to bring down flying birds for food, but was equally effective in defending homes.
The Calendar of Harptos was followed in Turmish as it was across Faerûn, along with its standard festival days. In addition, the Turmishans observed many local harvest festivals, holy days, and personal rites. The Dancing Ring cult held Dancing Nights on the final night of every month.
One day out of every nine, or more, Turmishans would take time off work to "chase the sun", when they would rest, spend time with family, practice or learn a new skill or magic, or do anything else of personal interest. Promising to do something "on the ninth day" usually meant "when I have time" or "Ill get around to it."
There were only two major festivals that were celebrated across Turmish. On these days, all businesses and all but the most vital government offices would shut. These were
* The Feast of the Moon Also known as the "Festival of Lovers", this joyous occasion was celebrated throughout all of the Vilhon Reach during Highsummer, on the first full moon after Midsummer. In the 1300s DR, it was a time of drinking, dancing, revelry, and even debauchery. Nevertheless, many couples were already married, married in the week before, or married on the night, for it was customary for newlyweds to consummate their marriages on this night too. Traditionally, lovers had trysts in new and unfamiliar locales, going to a previously arranged place separately along different routes before meeting up. In the 1400s DR, it was more a time for Turmishans to relax and enjoy their rewards and to spend time with friends and family. Turmishan merchants made sure to return home in time.
* The Reign of Misrule On Marpenoth 10, a tenday after Highharvestide, the citizens of Turmish would break their personal, religious, guild, and mercantile vows and social restraints by engaging in destructively exuberant celebrations, minor civil unrest, breaking things such as furniture and glass, and yelling and fighting with one another in the streets, so long as they didnt kill anyone or cause serious harm or destruction. Monks might break a vow of silence to talk and laugh, priests might break a vow of poverty to steal, and paladins might be rude and get into barroom brawls. Non-natives were prohibited from joining in these revelries, and were not excused for their actions if they did they might be held liable for damages if caught up in it. It was a vital release of tension and pent-up aggression, allowing people to spill guilty secrets or settle feuds with rivals, neighbors, and family. Naturally, the Assembly of Stars didnt meet on this day. While it lasted no longer than a day, from dawn to dusk, and the memories might last a lifetime, it was a crime to even talk about what anyone did during a Reign of Misrule. Every Turmishan understood the customs of the Reign of Misrule, even children, it was so deeply ingrained in the culture.
Turmishans worshiped a number of gods, including Chauntea, Silvanus,—rival sects of Talos and Bhaelros tended to meet in Turmish and fight for dominance, waging magical battles in Alaghôns streets at night.
Lliiras following in Turmish grew greatly following the Time of Troubles after Waukeen went missing. The many merchants of Turmish began to switch their supplications to Lliira, Waukeens friend and ally, making Lliiras church one of the wealthiest in Turmish and helping it become more accepted. In the mid-to-late 14 century DR, the Lliiran church had a major temple in Gildenglade.
Deep in Turmishs countryside were several large temple-farms and garden-monasteries dedicated to Selûne, Chauntea, and Loviatar. They kept little in the way of wealth. Worship took place at outdoor altars, often located in glades, and focused on fertility rites. Popular stories of nude Turmishans running in the fields on moonlit nights were most likely exaggerated, however. A great temple of Loviatar in Turmish was destroyed during the Time of Troubles in the . Long before, a grand many-spired temple to Selûne stood in the woods between the Alaoreum and Aphrunn Mountains. The priests there created the magical Ghost Swords that protected the realm. But in the early 300s DR, a raiding dragon obliterated the temple and slew the priesthood with it. Nevertheless, the Ghost Swords remained, whether through their magical might, the work of surviving priests through the ages, or the will of the Moonmother herself. Nothing remained of the temple by the 1300s DR, bar legends of deep buried vaults still filled with treasures and potions.
At least three hierophant druids roamed Turmishs wilderness as of the 1360s DR.
An ancient cult active in Turmish was the Dancing Ring, which accepted members of all races and faiths. Though mysterious, it was not secretive. Members believed that by holding dances and celebrating key events they could keep the realm of Turmish strong.
Built on the ruins of ancient Jhaamdath, the beginnings of Turmish lay in the founding of Alaghôn in the . Yet it was not until the rise to power of Dempster Turmish in the  and his subsequent expansions that the modern nation was founded.
Turmish alternated between being ruled by merchant families, strong lords, wizard conclaves, and even a dragon. However, following the resignation of dragonslayer-made-king Corwin Freas in the  and the establishment of the Assembly of Stars, Turmish was governed as a democratic republic.
The Spellplague of the , and the ensuing Wailing Years hit Turmish hard, though they escaped the destruction that befell Chondath to the south in what became known as the Vilhon Wilds. The shrinking of the Sea of Fallen Stars harmed Turmishs trade, which was bitterly felt in a country so dependent on commerce. Constant raids from vampires or Erlkazar made Turmishans wary of outsiders.
Following the Second Sundering in the 1480s DR and the concurrent Great Rain, many crops failed in Turmish and famine was widely felt. The Emerald Enclave performed a great ritual that hastened the rains, bringing the Inner Sea to the level it was prior to the Spellplague, and magically restored the farmlands and crops of the country. With its great cities reconnected to the Inner Sea and to trade, along with an agricultural boom, Turmish enjoyed an upturn in fortunes by 1489 DR.
Turmish was said to be riddled with extradimensional safeholds.
Sailors of Turmish had several superstitions about the waters around Myth Nantar. These were not entirely unwarranted, as the area are thought to be cursed and polluted by foul magic. To protect themselves, a crew might paint old runes and symbols on the outer hull to repel evil spirits. Not all captains believed these superstitions, but accepted them to improve crew morale.
400px|Map of Turmish circa 1360 DR.
Cities
 Alaghôn • Gildenglade • Ravilars Cloak • Xorhun
Towns
 Ayakar • Banathar • Centaur Bridge • Dauntshield • Ironcloak • Jathrins Jump • Nonthal • Obelners Well
Villages
 Bistals Bottom • Faerie Well • The Five Lions • Holdensword • Illowwood • Karthoon • Merrydell • Moonhunt Down • Morningstar Hollows • Peldrathans Pool • Quorngar • Regalia • Sambryntyn • Swordslake Creek • Tarnring • Ulvers Lance • Velorns Valor • Vollermar • Wyvernstone • Zustild
Ruins
 Marikor • Shaus • Scarbarlatine
Roads
 Turmway
* Akabar Bel Akash, a wizard and merchant and a companion of the hero Alias.
* Caladnei, Royal Magician of Cormyr serving Steel Regent Alusair Obarskyr.
* Anton Marivaldi, a pirate from Sapra who aided the Chosen of Lathander, Stedd Whitehorn, in restoring the seas and land.