Tweyar was a small, poor village in Tethyr.
The little village consisted of small, block-shaped houses surrounding a central commons with packed-down earth and a single oak tree at one edge.
As common to its region, the houses of Tweyar had flat roofs and were made from adobe bricks. They had wooden shutters over the windows.
The village overlooked the Sulduskoon River, near where the Starspire Mountains began to tilt southward away from the Forest of Tethir and towards Darromar. It was far enough from the coast that little rain fell there.
A road ran east along the river to the village of Pansemil.
In 1366 DR, the village hetman was named Osbard. Moofar was one of the village elders.
The militia of Tweyar was known as the Tweyar Self-Defense Force.
In the spring of the , Star Protective Services offered its training to the villagers of Tweyar, who were at that time defenseless. Though there was hesitation at first, Zaranda Star and her group were housed by the villagers, and the people began to learn archery.
Two days after that, Zaranda led the Tweyar Self-Defense Force to their second victory against the bandit camp.
However, despite her efforts to help the people of Tweyar, the village elders had her arrested near the end of the month of Flamerule, Moreover, the elders were hoping to use their new training to attack Pansemil. Zaranda talked them out of the absurdity of their actions, demonstrating her powers as a wizard to emphasize that she was never in any harm from any of them.
In the middle of Eleasias, one of the villages little girls discovered a notice from their baron, Lutwill, which announced a doubling of taxes to be paid in seven days. Several of the newly trained villagers decided that they wanted to fight back.
So, seven days later, several young volunteers from the Tweyar Self-Defense Force&mdashincluding Fiora, the hetmans daughter&mdashwho had been chosen by lot, joined Star Protective Services in storming Castle Lutwill. The raiders were victorious, Baron Lutwill was slain, and the castle was taken. However, Fiora was one of the ten volunteers killed in the battle as well.
The people of the village of Pansemil, upriver of Tweyar, believed that the villagers of Tweyar practiced incest and bestiality. The Tweyarites happened to believe the same rumors about the villagers of Pansemil.
Tweyar produced a local beer that was quite delicious.