Two Stars was a crossroads town in Thesk within northeastern Faerûn. Laid at the intersection of the Cold Road and the Golden Way, more trade passed through Two Stars than anywhere else in Thesk. In , Two Stars remained a crossroad of trade, still trading with Kront and with Mulsantir.
Two Stars was  above sea level.
Lady Yolatir Gallidy ruled the city from at least  Her general style of rule did not involve sticking her nose into anyones business, unless someone got hurt. As of , she was ferociously fighting the Shadowmasters of Telflamm. She financed her government by charging 1% of the value of any cargo brought into the city by wagon, a tax entirely paid by traders. She was a guild favourite.
The entire city was surrounded with a -tall stone wall. The Golden Way passed into the city, then along much of its inner wall much of the road inside the city was used as a trade bazaar.
The residence of the Gallidy family was a castle literally in the middle of Two Stars both the Golden Way and the Cold Road crossed its gates in both directions. The crossroads lay in the middle of the courtyard.
The first construction by Prasso Gallidy, the founder, it sat on the northwest corner of the crossroads inside Gallidy Castles main courtyard.
The Thayan Enclave in Two Stars boasted the lowest prices anywhere outside of Thay itself. Though permission to build inside the walls was rejected, Lady Yolatir ultimately agreed to let them build, given the bargain prices they offered.
This storefront had several adventurers offering their services as spell users. They included clerics both evil and good under the proprietor, a former red wizard named Hamal Kom. Most of their business involved divination spells regarding the crossing of the Endless Wastes.
The deep Imaskari wizard Ususi Manaallin had a laboratory in the city. It was hidden from view down a tight alley, its dome slightly protruding from beneath an unkempt grassy courtyard. Near it, broad stone stairs descended nine steps to a door. The dome was full of holes, which allowed sunlight down into the room. The structure had its inner walls lined with bookshelves, a desk in the middle, and numerous strange objects were hung from the ceiling.
The only temple of note, that wasnt kept by a single priest attending only to the faithful, was a temple to Shaundakul built by Shanton Gallidy, the Ladys cousin. Despite the communitys size, the temple was the largest in the East.