The Unapproachable East was a region of northeast and east Faerûn. The boundaries were usually defined as Easting Reach in the west, Sunrise Mountains in the east, Wizards Reach in the south, and the Icerim Mountains in the north, right up to the Great Glacier. The region was bordered to the south by the Old Empires, and to the north by the Cold Lands. To the northeast was the Hordelands.
Aglarond was an autocratic kingdom in the southwestern-most part of the Unapproachable East, with the capital of Velprintalar. It was a peninsula bordered on the west by the Sea of Fallen Stars and Altumbel and on the east by Thay. Most of its land was covered by the Yuirwood. Filled with magic and mystery, it was ruled by one of the most potent spellcasters of the Realms, the Simbul. In the north were the Dragonjaw Mountains. The population was mostly humans, who made up the nearly 1.3 million inhabitants, though one-third were half-elves and a fair number of elves.
Aglarond was once constantly fending off attacks from Thay, but a cease-fire led to brisk trade between the two nations around 1372 DR.
Altumbel was a "sub-peninsula", that is, a peninsulas peninsula or cape, located at the western end of the peninsula of Aglarond. Its capital was Spandeliyon, and the reclusive inhabitants distrusted non-humans. Its economy was mostly fishing.
The Great Dale was governed by a druidic hierarchy, under the rule of the Nentyarch. It was a human land of 200,000 inhabitants.
Impiltur was a kingdom of 1,200,000 inhabitants, mainly humans, but also dwarves and halflings, who were ruled by the regent queen Sambryl from the capital of Lyrabar in the mid–14 century DR.
Rashemen was a land of 650,000 people, almost all humans. It was ruled from the capital of Immilmar, where the ruler called the Iron Lord resided, but the true power in Rashemen were the famous Witches of Rashemen. In addition to the witches, Rashemen was also known for its berserker warriors and spirits that protect the land.
Thay was a magocracy of the dreaded Red Wizards. The coastal part of Thay was the Priador. Thay was constantly warring with its neighbors. Thayans were infamous for being slavers, a practice illegal in other lands.
Thesk was a region consisting of 850,000 people, inhabited by humans, gnomes, and orcs, with no official capital, though the city-state of Phsant commonly filled that role. It was economically dependent on the city-state of Telflamm and Kara-Turan goods shipped from the far east.
Telflamm was a large city-state and a port. Its approximately 23,500 inhabitants were under the rule of a "merchant prince", though behind the scenes it was the Shadowmasters of Telflamm, a thieves guild, that ran the city.
Ashanath was a minor kingdom east of the Great Dale and Thesk, south of Narfell and north of Thay. Its capital city Shandaular was destroyed in . Despite its fertile lands, it was mostly unsettled.