century with Undercliff to the east.
Undercliff was a rural community just outside the walls of Waterdeep, located east of the city proper.
Undercliff was a wide area of rolling grassland, with a few wooded areas and several farms, orchards, and areas dedicated to animal husbandry.
An aerial view of Undercliff in the distance from Waterdeep.
Upon exiting the River Gate in the Trades Ward, River Street continued into Undercliff Way, which ran north of Undercliff through several farms and a small village until connecting with the High Road north of the North Gate. Before turning north, the road bifurcated, and its southern branch, known as Southcliff Way, served the southern farms before connecting with the High Road south of the South Gate.
Undercliff was famous for its various inns, which attracted many visitors and were exempt from the taxation that businesses in the city proper were subject to. Businesses in Undercliff were also outside of the purview of the Guilds of Waterdeep and the region was not formally protected by the City Watch.
By 1479 DR, increasing numbers of dwarves had begun moving from the Field Ward to Undercliff, intending to tunnel into the cliff face and build new homes directly beneath Waterdeep proper. Separate from those of the Warrens, these tunnels broke into sewers and basements, and drew the ire of the Masked Lords who sent patrols of hired adventurers to stop any further mining.
In the , a group of scarecrows began terrorizing the local population and killing livestock. The Emerald Enclave sent a group of members to deal with the threat.
* Amendsfarm, a prison farm operated by the City Watch, where Waterdhavians convicted of minor offenses were sentenced to pay hard labor for a limited period of time.
* The Marching Grounds, a well protected training camp of the City Guard.
* Snobeedle Orchard and Meadery, an orchard, shop, and drinking hall operated by the Snobeedle family of halflings. Tourists were able to pick their own fruit during the appropriate seasons.
The area of Undercliff was largely inhabited by halflings and gnomes. Most of the buildings in the area were in fact sized for its small inhabitants.
The Amcathra family held an estate in Undercliff, where they trained horses bred in Amphail and sold them to the City Guard. The Hothemer family also held a villa in the region, where they conducted business outside of Waterdhavian jurisdiction.