While an exact Underdark region has not been specified, from what geographic information is known and its proximity to the Underspires their region can be approximated to be the Darklands.
Undraeth was a drow city in the Upper Darklands,  of southern Turmish.
Tunnels connected the city westward to Oryndoll and northwest to Sshamath.
Undraeth was ruled for several centuries by Queen Nathglaryst, a mage and Lolthite priestess. The demented ruler was worshiped by her subjects as an avatar of the Spider Queen herself.
The Church of Lolth in Undraeth was populated by priestesses of only middle and low rankings, most of whom were direct descendants of Queen Nathglaryst. This spread of rankings were due to the Queen having no tolerance for perceived rivals to the absolute power she commanded. Consequently, few subjects dared to ascend in power, as it was said that any who did would inevitably find themselves as a sacrifice upon the altar of Lolth.
Undraeth had relatively good relations with the drow city of Guallidurth. Conversely, Undraeth and its army was in conflict with the duergar city of Underspires for several centuries.
In -1850 DR, the Underspires launched a series of attacks against various Underdark races, including the cities of Undraeth and Oryndoll.
In the , the city-state of Hlondeth was overran by a kobold army called the Tattered Cloth Legion. In the aftermath of the attack by the kobold army, it was discovered that the invasion was instigated by drow, dispatched by Queen Nathglaryst of Undraeth and led by Shilaris Shemwith, in an attempt to conquer it. Though the drow were unsuccessful in their attempt at conquest, Shilaris managed to abscond with the Hlondethan treasury, possibly hiding a portion of it in the sewers below the city and retreating to the Underdark with the remainder. From that day onward, Hlondeth prepared itself for an invasion from Undraeth that may never come.
Around the early 2 century DR, Undraeth in a profitable slaves trade with agents of the Red Wizards of Thay. Using pirates from the Sea of Fallen Stars, the Red Wizards had slave-caravans sent tiny anchorages along the coast of Turmish, thence they would be taken a short way to some mines that produced very little ore. The tunnels of those mines lead down to Undraeth in the Underdark. Eventually, some agents of the Harpers stumbled upon this operation while investigating unrelated Thayan slave-caravans and tried to put an end to the shipments. In retaliation, Queen Nathglaryst sent agents to the surface to slay the Harpers and hire folks that could. Though these hirelings were somewhat successful, they occasionally were captured or slain by members of the Magelords of Mintar, mistaking them for Harpers themselves.
Circa 1150 DR, the Harpers hired a mercenary army of their own to invade Undraeth. Anticipating that the Magelords of Mintar would use their conflict with Undraeth as an opportunity to strike at them, Khelben Arunsun and his compatriot Elminster made sure that all of the wizard members of the Harpers would be present for the invasion. On the day of attack, the assembled wizards used explosive spells to collapse Undraeths mineshaft surface-link as the drow were scrambling up from the Underdark to confront them. With the loss of that surface-link and slave trade, Queen Nathglarysts power base outside of Undraeth would crumble and her realm would further wither as it faced repeated skirmishes from Underspires.
In the , during the Time of Troubles, the avatar of the duergar god Deep Duerra appeared in Underspires in the form of the "Queen Mother", serving as regent until War King Olorn Ridaugaur came of age. Under her guidance the duergar assembled and trained an army of elite duergar warriors that were sent into forays against Ironfang Deep and Undraeth to shape them into the most battle-ready force that the Underspires had in centuries. Undraeth continued to be in conflict with them by 1370 DR and the Underspires had enslaved a large number of its drow citizens.
By 1371 DR, Queen Nathglarysts focus was on reclaiming lost relics of Telantiwar, convinced that doing so could help her to finally achieve her dream of a establishing an empire. 
She dispatched agents throughout the Great Bhaerynden region of the Underdark, having them track down every lingering rumor of Telantiwars relics and recover whatever still remained. The drow city of Llurth Dreier progressively noticed the Undraeth agents, whose presence posed an annoyance to its aboleth leaders, to the point that rumors arose that the Fanatics of the Overflowing Pit might be spurred to march to war and snuff out the self-styled City of the Spider Queen.