The Utter East was a land in the extreme southeast of Faerûn, bordering the continents of both Kara-Tur and Zakhara. It was home to the Five Kingdoms.
The Utter East lay on the isthmus joining the great continents of Faerûn and Kara-Tur in the north to Zakhara in the south. The Wu Pi Te Shao Mountains, the southern arm of the massive Yehimal Mountains, ran down the center of the isthmus like a spine. The Utter East lay on the western side, between the mountains and the sea, in a narrow landscape less than 100 miles wide (160 kilometers). It was the only easily traversable land-bridge between the continents the Sempadan Forest on the eastern side was much too dense.
The coastline was dry
In the north lay vast and uncharted plains, which bordered the eastern side of Ulgarth.
right|A distorted map of the Utter East, showing some realms and locations.
A map of the Utter East.
The Utter East was dominated by the Five Kingdoms, which were ruled by the Ffolk and by the Northmen. They included
* Doegan
* Edenvale
* Konigheim
* The Free Cities of Parsanic
They ruled over the indigenous human Mar tribes. The Mar were once subjugated and enslaved by the Ffolk and Northmen, before they demanded their freedom following the Bloodforge Wars. Yet they still had no lands of their own or a say in the courts of the Five Kingdoms, even by the 14 century DR.
The barbarian Horde dwelled in the northern plains, and regularly raided or invaded Ulgarth in the north.
The indigenous Mar people spoke Maran, which was most closely related to the languages of Zakhara. It was melodious but rapidly spoken, with short syllables and throat clicks.
The Ffolk colonists spoke Waelan, the native tongue of the Moonshae Isles, but their Five Kingdoms dialect was heavily influenced by both its isolation and by Northmen settlers and by corsairs and merchants from across south Faerûn and north Zakhara.
For much of their history prior to the 14 century DR, the cultures of Faerûn and Kara-Tur saw the isthmus as only a bridge to nowhere, not seeing the lands of Zakhara to the southwest, and so, for the most part, turned their backs on the Utter East.
Thus, to the West, the Utter East was a little-known and bizarre collection of lands, with only legends considered too fantastic and fanciful to be taken as fact filtering back to Faerûn.
According to a legend, at the "beginning of all things", the land was "a frenzy of creation". The first primitive nations of the Utter East were said to have emerged out of this turmoil.This history of the Utter East is pieced together from various sources, including the uncertain continuity of Blood & Magic and accounts from more conventional Forgotten Realms sources. Some events have unknown dates and uncertain correspondences to other events. Therefore, except where specified and dated, much of the following chronology is hypothetical and the links between similar events are speculative.
In prehistoric times, a great horde of fiends and undead horrors became trapped in prisons buried deep beneath the land. There they would wait for thousands of years.
The first humans of the Utter East were the Mar, who settled along the coastline in past ages. Their histories told they had known only oppression since that time. 
In time, the lords of the Circle of Order arose to govern the early nations of the Utter East, those east of the Great Sea. The Realm of Lands was ruled by the Lord of Lands, the Realm of Tides by the Lady of Tides, and the Realm of Fire by the Lord of Flame, who believed order brought progress. However, there was one other of the Circle, who engaged in chaotic plots in the belief that chaos brought challenge, change, and strength, and so was exiled and cast down, bound in a subterranean kingdom. In his imprisonment, he adopted the name Tartyron and was called the Lord of Chaos. Loathing this place, Tartyron constantly struggled against the wards, his rage bolstering his strength and spent on those who happened into his deep realm. He waited, knowing those of the Realms would grow comfortable, lazy, and weak, and then he would escape to spread chaos once again.
250px|A barrow tomb of the ancient clans, wherein the Pearl of Power was kept.
When the clans of these times warred, defeated champions were buried in barrow tombs, together with their weapons and magical relics like the Pearl of Power. The sensible living would shun such places. Curses were said to bring grief and misfortune to those who disturbed them.
In ancient times, a mighty city was built atop the high mountains. However, it later fell into ruins, was stripped of its wealth and resources, and was by-and-large forgotten, known only as Old Stone Keep. Nevertheless, it was part of a legacy of great mages, and rumored to hide secrets of arcane magic.
Folk of the Uttermost East, notable for their "dazzling raiment", were noted as visiting the city of Medinat Muskawoon in the Raurin to the north, before the citys decline in the mid-300s DR.Its assumed that "Uttermost East" refers to the Utter East and not to Kara-Tur.
In the Year of Nineteen Swords, 621 DR, in the far Moonshae Isles, the Ffolk princess Bridget of Callidyrr was to marry the Northmen prince Scothgar of Rogarsheim, but she and her whole royal entourage vanished on the voyage to Norland. Ffolk and Northmen each blamed the other for the disappearance, which worsened relations between them. That same year, Moonshaes Ffolk arrived on the shores of the Utter East, where they chose to settle.Although there is no explicit connection between these events, the implication is clear that Bridgets entourage was somehow transported from the Moonshaes to the shores of the Utter East, and that the Northmen followed. In fact, author Brian R. James borrowed this from an article entitled "Perilous Portals The Sea Gates" written by Mark "Markustay" Taylor in [http//www.candlekeep.com/compendium/Candlekeep_Compendium-Volume_IX.zip Candlekeep Compendium Volume IX], a fan-written netbook, making it an example of fanon turned canon. Taylors story tells of a pirate who tried to attack Bridgets treasure-laden ships, until a Northlander fleet intervened. Both Ffolk and Northlanders pursued the pirate into a sea portal, before all three were wrecked in a storm on the Great Sea. This itself derived from speculation and homebrew lore developed in the "Utter East Campaign + MAP!!!" thread.
The native Mar welcomed the Ffolk, who spoke of peace and brotherhood between the two races. Indeed, relations were friendly for the first few years. However, Ffolk soon turned greedy, and they seized Mar lands for their own, and then subjugated and enslaved the Mar tribes themselves. They carved these stolen lands into their Five Kingdoms.By "Ffolk" here, Mar historians may be referring to both Ffolk and Northmen. The Northman kingdom of Konigheim was established in all the novels as being heavily involved in slaving, while Rathgars warriors fit depictions of Northmen.
Invaders led by Rathgar the Raider overran Doegan, besieging the capital. To pacify his poor clansmen, Rathgar plundered the realm. Finally, he seized the crown itself, and the king was slain upon his throne, cursing that the dead would depose Rathgar. Escaping the invaders, the princess of Doegan sought a way to fulfill her fathers prophecy. She went to Old Stone Keep and enlisted the aid of Aelric, a mage of Doegan and heir to the Keeps great magical legacy.
right|Its all about the bloodforges, baby.
The bloodforges were discovered in the Year of the Dancing Daggers, 648 DR, first by King Grewe of Konigheim and within tendays by Ffolk across all the Five Kingdoms. These ancient devices of war could mass-produce entire armies of living golems, eliminating overnight the cost of mustering and maintaining armed forces. Losing all restraint, turning war-mad, the Ffolk rulers of the Five Kingdoms each manufactured great golem armies and marched them against one another, bursting into the Bloodforge Wars. They were drawn into battle by thoughts of conquest and revenge, rivalry and intrigue. The kingdoms throve on the arcane magic of the bloodforges and were governed by military might. The Mar, meanwhile, could only be helpless witnesses, recording events for posterity.
A number of conflicts large and small raged back and forth across the Utter East, with all sides commanding bloodforges and basal golem armies. In the Howl of Vengeance, Aelric and the princess of Doegan raised an army of bloodforge undead in an effort to liberate their homeland. They were opposed by Rathgars own bloodforge warriors. However, the conflicts soon turned frivolous, with bloodforge battles taking the place of contests and duels. In the so-called Matchmaker Mayhem, Princess Roxanna and her would-be suitors fought bloodforge battles to choose her husband and decide who would rule Edenvale. The feuding, treasure-hunting brothers Garrulos and Wormskull delved into an ancient barrow tomb and uncovered the Pearl of Power their inventions and bloodforge battles laid waste to Konigheim in the so-called Nuts and !Bolts (sic) escapade.The events of Blood & Magic are only dated to "before the Time of Troubles" (1358 DR) in game. It is assumed these are a part of the Bloodforge Wars described in Faces of Deception and dated in The Grand History of the Realms to 648–657 DR. It is possible the novel and sourcebook give alternate versions of the events of the game. Moreover, the above five campaigns are introduced with "A story for your pleasure?" suggesting that even in-universe these are fictionalized versions of historic events or entirely fictional (especially the comedic Nuts and !Bolts.
250px|Fighting for peace is like that.
As the wars dragged on, kingdoms came and went, their lands were devastated, but the power struggles were unending. In time, people at all levels of society hoped for a legendary leader who, regardless of whether their motives were virtuous, selfish, or immoral, could end the wars, unify the kingdoms, and bring peace to the Utter East. Unfortunately, one did. Emerging from obscurity, this leader made a sovereign claim to rulership and swore to unify the realm and give mercy to anyone who recognized their claim. All the current rulers, of course, rejected it completely. Regardless, the new leader rallied their handful of golem followers and embarked on the Legendary Campaign. They would not be alone in this. The mage Venar Orknal also made a claim to the realm and embarked on an identical campaign to win it, while countless others opposed them. They engaged in bloodforge battles up and down the land, fighting rival claimants and warlords, challenging other bloodforge mages, aiding the needy, defeating the wicked, attacking the good, and, in short, doing exactly the same as everyone else.
Finally, when the last of the bloodforge mages was defeated, all conflicts came to an end and all the rival factions of the Utter East capitulated to the leader of the Legendary Campaign.
Sure it was all worth it.
With the title "overlord", the leader of the Legendary Campaign ruled alone over one unified realm, in a manner said to be always true and diligent. However, they stood ready for a time when the bloodforges would be needed in battle once more.
Finally, at the end of their reign, the leader was destined to fight another great bloodforge battle, this time at the Gate of Immortals. Victorious, they broke through into the Hall of Legends, and became an Immortal themselves. Their name would live forever in legend.This leader is of course the player of the Blood & Magic game. As a canon name is unknown and given what happens next, it seems likely they disappeared and their name was forgotten completely.
Except they left behind an Utter East devastated by a decade of unending warfare, leaving the defenses of the Five Kingdoms wrecked and the cities lying in ruins or rubble, while the ancestral lands of the Mar were despoiled. The Ffolk were at last growing weary of warfare, and utterly unprepared when another foe entered the game.
It transpired that every use of a bloodforge had steadily weakened the ancient prisons binding the fiends and undead beneath the Utter East. Finally, in the Year of the Nine Stars, 657 DR, the horde of antediluvian horrors escaped and rampaged across the ruins of the land, killing without regard for kingdom or race. This was known as the Plague of Fiends. The Ffolk sent ships out north and south, desperately begging for aid from their neighbors. Unfortunately, they got it.
Grand Caliph Arash bint Sanjar of Zakhara answered the Ffolks pleas for help, sending an armada of sambuk to the Utter East in early Mirtul of 657 DR. But the corsairs launched a surprise attack on the Five Kingdoms, swiftly overrunning and seizing their defenseless port cities. Then legions of askar warriors, clad in djinn-forged lamellar and wielding killing katars, disembarked and marched across the land. With murderous efficiency, they razed every village and slew all they encountered, whether fiend or Ffolk, in what became known as the Scouring of the Utter East. The Grand Caliph saw the people as only heathens and barbarians, the land as infected and ravaged, which he had no plans to occupy. Their bloody work done by the time autumn fell, they boarded their sambuks and sailed home again.
They left behind a wasteland, of burned and ruined cities, of corpses rotting where theyd fallen. The Five Kingdoms were in chaos, but the Mar had, at least, survived. They stood up and demanded their freedom, and the Ffolk, weary and sick of warfare, yielded it, however reluctantly. Nevertheless, the Mar still had no land of their own, nor were they heard in the royal courts. This state of affairs continued for centuries.
In the , Atreus Eleint of Erlkazar and his ogre companion Yago made an expedition to the Utter East in search of the fabled realm of Langdarma. Together with the Mar bahrana Rishi Saubhari, they journeyed into the Yehimals, and were never seen again by the outside world.
Also in 1368 DR, delegates of Doegan and Konigheim met in Tharkar under the pretense of negotiating a treaty. However, both sides planned to sabotage the proceedings by murdering one of their own, so as to unite the rest of the Kingdoms against the other. Their plots were foiled by an agent from Ulgarth, and there was no overall change in the political structure of the Five Kingdoms.
The Year of Rogue Dragons, 1373 DR, saw Shining Lands merchants journey to the Utter East, as well as to places as far-flung as Waterdeep, Zakhara, and even Maztica, in order to purchase wares for trade.
The Utter East had a local magic unfamiliar to the spellcasters of Faerûn.As noted above, this may have been intended to refer to Kara-Tur, but it is not unlikely that the Utter East practices a different form of magic. Mana was extensively used to power the bloodforges, create basal golems, and cast spells during the Bloodforge Wars.