Verdigris was a small settlement and vassal-state of Phlan, located in the Moonsea North region of North Faerûn.
Originally, Verdigris was a town that relied on mining for its income. Later, it was frozen in a huge glacier, and many residences were erected outside it, on its western fringes. This new part became known as New Verdigris, whereas the original ruined part became known as Old Verdigris. In the 15 century DR, it appeared to be known just as Verdigris again.
The original Verdigris had an government house that ran the daily administration of the city. It had a huge network of mines.
New Verdigris had many buildings residences, including the mayors house, a training hall, a vault, the Minotaur and Mermaid tavern, the Temple of Gond and an armoury.
It was situated north of the Dragonspine Mountains,  east from Whitehorn along Rogans Sprint road, and  of Castle Vathar along its namesake Verdigris Trail.
Like the other protectorates of Phlan, Verdigris was defended in part for soldiers stationed at Castle Vathar.
Approximately 375 prior to the mid-14 DR, two brothers, Oswulf and Eldamar, built the Castle of the Twins in the Dragonspine Mountains. Over the next quarter of a century, the mining town of Verdigris was established below the castle. The residents of Verdigris would convene in the town hall, and the brothers would guide them. Under their guidance, the town became very prosperous.
When Eldamar became old, he transformed into a lich known as the Dreadlord, and the town of Verdigris became ruined and filled with vile creatures. Oswulf left town, and formed the Silver Blades. When the Silver Blades arrived, they cleared the ruined town, and froze the valley in a huge glacier.
1000px|New Verdigris, build on the western fringe or a glacier. The ruined town of Old Verdigris emerges from the glacier, and the ice-covered Castle of Twins is shown to the right.
In the early 14 century DR, the Black Circle formed from the descendants of Eldamars followers. They began to slowly penetrate the ice. As the ice emerged, miners of the mountains near the Verdigris Valley took notice. A few months later, a boomtown was established at the valleys mouth. This new settlement became known as New Verdigris, and the mining operations were back in full swing. The old, ruined part the town, formerly known as just Verigris, became known as Old Verdigris. As the miners reached the lower levels, they broke into the Castle of the Twins, awakening the frozen creatures as the air rushed in. Many miners fell. Anguished, they put their wealth together, and made a wish to the Well of Knowledge.
In the , barbarians from the Ride raided Verdigris and other nearby settlements of the Moonsea North, such as Ilinvur and Whitehorn, sending thousands of refugees fleeing from their home, seeking shelter and protection in Phlan.