The town of Vineshade was the largest settlement in the Purple Hills in Tethyr and thought by most to be the wine capital of the entire Sword Coast. It was primarily a halfling town.
Vineshade was located in the Purple Hills of County Vintor in the Purple Marches,
This town was arranged in quarters. The western quarter contained the wineries and drying shacks for the pipeweed. The northern section contained most of the human houses and buildings. The other two quarters were filled with halfling-style abodes. The center of the town was where the largest building in town stood, the Vintners Guildhouse.
Every building in the town showed the same quality of workmanship present in the wines the city produced. The halfling homes consisted of clusters of subterranean burrows in the hills or hollowed-out large trees.
No wall surrounded this town however, the halfling militia have a series of underground tunnels leading from secret armories to locations outside the town perimeter. Thus, the town guards can often flank troublemakers trying to escape capture.
The towns underground prison was halfling-sized, making it especially unpleasant for human-sized criminals.
A mayor (Lord-Mayor Lyrminor Vineshigh in 1370 DR) governed the town with the advising of a council.
The town was protected by a volunteer militia, which in 1370 was headed by Captain Arex Speartall. The militia performed training exercises once a month. Captain Speartalls deputy was a human man named Urm Saajor.
Forty percent of the wine in nobles houses in Tethyr originated in Vineshade. Vineshades wines, ciders, and beers were known all over Faerûn, and the town, despite its small size, was responsible for a large portion of Tethyrs total income.
In 1370 DR, the population of Vineshade was 32 hundred souls, of which eight-tenths were halflings. The population did not change much over the seasons.
The center of social life in the town was the Vintners Guildhouse. Nearly every resident would visit the Guildhouse at least once a day to catch up on news and gossip.
Vineshade only suffered two attacks during the Tethyrian Interregnum, and Captain Speartalls well-trained milita drove the brigands away both times without harm to the town.
Duchess Marilyn Haresdown was said to visit the town frequently, because she had become infatuated with a brewer and widower named Pollan, who was living there.
 The Purple Pillow  This two-story building was one of only four human-sized inns in the town and contained a taproom and restaurant.
 Raths Grapes  This burrow-tavern specialized in both local and imported wines.
 The Town Hollow  This halfling-sized burrow entered through a hollow tree served as the town hall.
 The Vintners Guildhouse  The town center and the largest building in the town, this three story building was the home of the Vintners Guild.
In 1370 DR, notable individuals living in Vineshade included
* Lord-Mayor Lyrminor Vineshigh, the mayor,
* Guildmistress Sunni Talltankard-Vineshigh, the mayors wife and leader of the Vintners Guild,
* Master Cumber Talltankard, Sunnis older brother and one of the largest vineyard-holders in the town,
* Captain Arex Speartall, captain of the militia,
* Deputy Urm Saajor, a wagonwright who kept his true werebear identity secret,
* Pollan, a human brewer who was third-in-charge of the Vintners Guild,
* Raaln Fyllium, the half-elven owner of the Purple Pillow,
* Ysaa Fyllium, Raaln Fylliums wife, and
* Rath, a vintner and the owner of Raths Grapes.
CategorySettlements
CategoryLarge towns
CategoryHalfling locations
CategoryLocations on the Hillstrail
CategoryLocations in the Purple Hills
CategoryLocations in Vintor
CategoryLocations in the Purple Marches
CategoryLocations in Ankramir
CategoryLocations in Tethyr
CategoryLocations in the Lands of Intrigue
CategoryLocations in West Faerûn
CategoryLocations in Faerûn
CategoryLocations on Toril
CategoryExports wine
CategoryExports beer
CategoryExports pipeweed
bhq8pygo529o586ezivwmdfp58krcsq