century DR.
Volkumburgh was a tiny village nestled in the foothills of the Thunder Peaks, south of Thunder Gap.
A map showing the location of Volkumburgh in relation to the rest of the Thunder Peaks.
Many of the major paths and trails in the Thunder Peaks lead to this village, including a winding trail branching south off the East Way that was  long.  to the south-southwest of this village was a valley known as the Vale of the Dragon Oracle.Page 2 of Vale of the Dragon Oracle text states that the eponymous valley is to the north-northwest of the village and that the Temple of the Dragon Oracle is located there. But in The Shattered Statue, it was stated that the temple is south of the village. Northeast of the village was a set of ruins known as the High Pasture.
Volkumburgh was a herding village, their primary trade good being sheep and the wool they grew.
Founded in 999 DR,
In the mid-12 century DR, King Proster Obarskyr ordered Volkumburghs College of Shaping Magics to construct a new breed of stone golems, designed to help expedite his building projects. In later centuries, this information could only be found in a single obscure government document in Suzail.
Later that same year Volkumburgh Vale was sacked by that same golem, leading to the destruction of both the magic colleges within it. Lord Volkumburghs treasure was known to the inhabitants of his village, though its location was not. Over time it would come to be known as "Volkis treasure."
Lord Volkumburghs manor would be rebuilt as the Crimson Wyrm, while the rest of its remains were used to construct the small village. Later, some man would approach the lord and task him with hiding one of the golems hands within the village, which he tucked away beneath its fountain.
Over the two centuries that followed their destruction, the residents of Volkumburgh would loot the ruins of the valleys colleges for valuables to either keep or sell. Many even considered it a right of passage to loot something sellable from the ruins.
During the Flight of the Dragons, an adult red dragon by the name of Flashfire emigrated from the north, eventually coming to settle within the abandoned Temple of the Dragon Oracle in 1358 DR.Page 16 of The Shattered Statue states that Flashfire, "...came south several years ago in the dragon invasion that destroyed the city of Phlan on the shores of the Moonsea." Describing the event known as the Flight of the Dragon, which occurred in 1356 DR. However, that page also states that Flashfire only moved into the Temple of the Dragon Oracle recently. For more information on this, see Note 1. He went on to force knowledge of the temples location upon the inhabitants of Volkumburgh, demanding they bring him a monthly tribute in the form of five sheep. Though, even when this tribute was paid, Flashfires gargoyle minions would still sometimes terrorize Volkumburgh Vale,
In 1358 DR, the wizard Amelior Amanitas set up a workshop in the village in the form of a huge tower, as well as some fragments of it that he managed to merge back together into an arm through use of potions. Ameliors efforts to reconstruct the golem attracted the attention of the devout followers of Valmous and their neanderthal allies, who occupied the college ruins and kept the villagers from getting into them.
As a result of this, over time the Awtawmatawn, the ruins of the magical colleges, Amelior Amanitas, and the arm he found all became taboo topics in the village. Amelior later discovered one of the statues feet in a temple in Suzail, which locals mistakenly believed to be a piece of Grumbar. In the month of Uktar, some time before the Feast of the Moon, he arranged for the foot to be shrunken down, stolen, and then delivered to him by a group of adventurers in Suzail. Estimating where the other fragments might be, he then tasked them with seeking out the rest of the fragments. 
Those adventurers went on to recover one of the golems lost hands, hidden beneath a fountain in the village. The discovery of this hand led many villagers to conclude that Volkis treasure had to be hidden somewhere in the village. Thus they proceeded to dig many pits and trenches within the village green.
A few days after the collected parts were turned in to Amelior, the awakened Valmous and his disciples attacked the village alongside an army of neanderthals, seeking to destroy the Awtawmatawn. At the same time, Lychor unleashed a counter-force of undead in hopes of both protecting the golem and claiming it for himself. This horde of undead included a hundred skeletons, twenty zombies, and ten wights. During this siege Awtawmatawn finally awakened and began to rampage around Volkumburg, destroying Ameliors workshop in the process. Both armies, as well as everyone else in the village, stopped to gawk as this occurred. Lychor then used the distraction to cast a deadly spell on Valmous and those around him, putting him out of action for the rest of the battle.
Amelior would gift the adventurers a number of magic items to aid them in the battle. These included brass bottles containing his two loyal ogre servants and the djinn Hasan, a brass bottle that unleashed a ballista with twenty bolts that was manned by four zombies, three potions of growth, three potions of giant strength,
As of 1369 DR, the Crimson Wyrm had been repaired and Volkumburgh was still a rustic village of miners and sheep farmers.
Despite being very isolated from the rest of interior Faerûn, the inhabitants of Volkumburgh were relatively friendly and very open with strangers. Though they would fall silent whenever one of their taboo topics came up. Any attempt to threaten them into speaking of those taboos would make them more stoic and standoffish.
* Ameliors workshop
* Crimson Wyrm, the towns tavern and inn.