Wave Echo Cave was a great cavern complex within the northern Sword Mountains and the location of the Forge of Spells. It was located 15 miles east of Phandalin, within the ranges deep vales. 
The cavern was known for its mineral wealth&mdashnotably mithril and platinum&mdashas well as its magical properties. Wave Echo Cave was connected to an underground hot spring that continuously boiled near the cavern. The cavern got its name from the booming sounds created every time these waves crashed against the walls deep inside the cavern.
In the 10 century DR, clans of dwarves and gnomes made a pact that would later be known as Phandelvers Pact. The pact allowed both of the races to share the riches within the mine of Wave Echo Cave. Many gained from this agreement, including the nearby human settlement of Phandalin. When it was discovered that the cavern had wondrous magical properties, spellcasters from Phandalin allied themselves with the dwarves and gnomes to harness this magical power and use it to its fullest potential. They bound the magic into a forge they called the Forge of Spells, where they crafted magical weapons and other items.
However, in 951 DR, the orcs of Uruth Ukrypt came from the north and laid waste to the region. The orcs were aided by mercenary wizards when they attacked Wave Echo Cave, adamant in seizing its riches. The human spellcasters of Phandalin fought alongside the gnomes and dwarves to defend the cave. However, the battle of magic destroyed much of Wave Echo Cave. Few survived the battle and so the location of the cave was lost to history.
thumb|The Rockseeker brothers approach the cave entrance.For hundreds of years, opportunists were attracted to the area in hopes of seeking lost treasure, including a dark elf named Nezznar. Around the , the location was at last rediscovered by a trio of dwarves named Gundren, Nundro, and Tharden Rockseeker.
At the time of the pact, Wave Echo Cave was home to dwarves and gnomes alike, and they worked tirelessly in the Forge of Spells. However, after the attack in 951 DR, the caverns housed monstrous creatures such as stirges, ghouls, gricks, bugbears, skeletons, zombies, ochre jellies, a flameskull, and a spectator.
The most notable creature that inhabited the caverns was a restless spirit, a wraith named Mormesk. In life, Mormesk was the last wizard to die in the attack by the orcs of Uruth Ukrypt. He had been poisoned with anger, transforming him into a vengeful apparition.