The town of Winterhaven was located on the East Way, between the nations of Sembia and Cormyr.  It was situated on the road between Arabel and Highmoon. Due to its location in the middle of the Thunder Peaks, it was not uncommon for the inhabitants to be attacked by monstrous races such as kobolds and goblins.
An ancient dragon burial site laid southwest of the town, and the ruined Shadowfell Keep laid northeast.
Long before the birth of Cormyr in 26 DR, the shadow dragon Shadraxil lurked in the Thunder Peaks. When Cormyr began to create a series of fortresses along its frontier in 236 DR, Shadraxil took this as an affront to his lands and began attacking the outposts. In response to Shadraxils depredations, Cormyr sent a small force of armed men and War Wizards led by the paladin Jerold Keegan. Keegan created a magical trap within one of the keeps and trapped Shadraxil in the Plane of Shadow.
Sir Jerold Keegan became the lord of that outpost, which was then called Keegans Keep. The town of Winterhaven was founded nearby due to the keeps protection.
It is said that some time after Shadraxils banishment, Keegan became a crazed madman and slew all of his family and friends, cursing the keep forever. The leaders of Cormyr, afraid that this dark influence could be corrupting, ordered the keep torn down. They slew a young shadow dragon, claimed it was Shadraxils corpse, and buried in a fake dragon burial site southwest of Winterhaven
In 1479 DR, a cult of Shar was established in Winterhaven.
The most notorious inhabitants of Winterhaven, as of the post-Spellplague years, were
*Lord Padraig The ruler of this small town and its environs. He was content to take little action, and had little initiative.
*Sister Linora Winterhavens priestess, Sister Linora was a middle-aged human woman and a devotee of Chauntea. She was quiet and soft-spoken.
*Gevarn An acolyte of Chauntea, he was often asked by Sister Linora to do her biddings.
Valthrun A learned man in the town of Winterhaven, he lived in a 5-storied tower that was said to be over 1000 years old.