Xammux, also known as the Caverns of Xammux, was a partially flooded cave system that contained the legendary Library of Tarchamus.
The entrance was a great stone door located in the side of a cliff within a ravine at the edge of the High Forest. and part of the door had collapsed and fallen away as of the late 15 century DR.
The interior was a cave complex that descended into flooded lower levels deep beneath the Nether Mountains, although even the upper levels were often damp. Navigating the caves brought explorers first to a lake and then to a flooded passageway with a strong current, through which it was not possible to travel without some means of water breathing. Beyond this were the decorative stone doors that led to the library.
The flooding of the caves was due to the presence of a subterranean stream that flowed from an aquifer in the Underdark into the River Rauvin. When this stream overflowed, the caves filled with water such that even the main entrance would leak, and debris and treasures from the caverns would be washed out to the river for the locals to find.
The ravine was located on the northern edge of the High Forest at the base of the Nether Mountains a few days journey east from Everlund in the Silver Marches. The ravine entrance was marked by a handful of standing stones.
The complex housed the Library of Tarchamus, which was constructed by the Netherese arcanist known as Tarchamus the Unyielding sometime prior to . By the late 15 century DR, little was known about the complex save that it was believed to have been abandoned by its original creators for centuries.While references to The Xammux are indirect in both the Forgotten Realms Campaign Guide and Lesser Evils, author of the latter Erin M. Evans confirmed in a [https//web.archive.org/web/20220502032053/https//twitter.com/erinmevans/status/1520966433429069824 tweet] that the location was understood to be used by cultists of The Xammux "This was a location indicated on a 4e map as a site frequented by cultists of Xammux. I figured the mistranslation of Tarchamus led them to use the cavern and whether they successfully contacted any elder evils is someone else’s story."
The library was destroyed in a volcanic eruption caused by a casting of Tarchamus volcano by the cambion Lorcan in Flamerule of the . The eruption blew the top off of the mountain above the caverns, however at least some of Xammux survived more-or-less intact.
The moist upper levels of the complex were the hunting grounds of fungus creatures and the occasional hydra, while the flooded depths were home to pale-colored horrors. It was also home to a large colony of cavern botflies.