A is for Azuth, and other Gods was a collection of childrens rhymes made to help remember the names and portfolios of the deities of the Realms.
These books were split into several different volumes, each containing a few verses about the gods of Faerûn.
Amaunator, suns bright light
Shines the truth into mans laws.
Speak His name to stop a fight
Then, invoke a legal clause.
Beware dread Asmodeus
Both His word and promise sweet.
More able to betray us
Than the devils at His feet.
Auril is merciless and cold
the winters icy breath.
Spare Her a little food and gold
So you wont freeze to death
Azuth, the god of wizards all
Who spend their whole lives learning.
He grants their spells both big and small,
For Mystra always yearning.
Bane the tyrant, the Black Hand
Makes sure the strong do rule.
He spreads His darkness through the land,
Praised by the harsh and cruel.
Beshaba will bring forth your doom
Unless you chant Her prayer.
Split from Tymora in the womb,
She brings bad luck to spare.
You should not ever pray to Bhaal,
The savage Lord of Murder,
His worshippers are killers all
who spread His darkness further.
Chauntea is our Mother Great,
Hers is the hearth and home.
Our harvests on Her blessing wait
Thus we reap what weve sown.
Cyric is the prince of strife,
God of deceit and madness.
Watch for the Dark Sun and His lies,
Wholl rob your bonds of gladness.
Ilmater hears the martyrs cries
Takes in the ill and the oppressed.
When one to help the others dies,
Then by Ilmater they are blessed.
Jergal, or so its often said,
Once gave away his bony throne.
For Kelemvor he tracks the dead,
Makes sue the dead souls do not roam.
Kelemvor, Lord of the Dead,
Will take your hand when death arrives.
Makes sure souls are correctly lead
To all their proper afterlives.
Leira, Lady of Deception
the goddess who wears many masks.
Invoke Her name - avoid perception
She hides your lies and secret tasks.
For joy, to Lliira you must call
And worship Her through soulfelt dance.
So find Her presence in festhalls
Do not give idleness a chance.
Loviatars pleasure is your pain,
Your scars an offering.
Scourge or candle, whip or cane,
Can your devotion bring.
Milil is the Lord of Song.
Pray to Him for inspiration.
Hear His call and sing along.
Let His art be your salvation.
Myrkul is the lord of death
Of hopelessness and ending things
Hell come for all at their last breath
Lords and peasants, crooks and kings
Mystra, goddess of all mages--
She proves and tends the weave.
Revered by many through the ages
All magic we from her receive.
Selûne guides us through the night
She is the moon, the stars her tears.
Her sister tries to douse her light,
But she protects us from our fears.
Shar will take your sorrow from you
But beware her night is dark.
Shell hide your pain, and secrets, too.
And all your joy, and all your spark.
Silvanus, god of all thats wild.
Of natures danger and its charm.
His glorys not to be defiled,
Or you yourself will come to harm.