All Shadows Fled by Ed Greenwood is the third book in The Shadow of the Avatar trilogy. 
Anastra Syluné Silverhand • Fflarast Blackriver • Kuthe • Margrueth • Rethuld • Storm Silverhand • Thael Sembergelt • Thuruthein Tlar
malaugrym
Spells lesser ironguard
Armor gorget
Foods & Drinks wine
Items vial
Substances poison
cinnamon • dunbark • nutmeg • turnip
Syluné, Sharantyr, Belkram, and Itharr escape the Castle of Shadows, but are trapped in a spell cycle by Malaugrym. Sylune eventually frees them and Elminster tells them the Zhentarim, led by Bane, are attacking the Dalelands, and that several Malaugrym took advantage of the chaos to slip into the Realms, against orders. He sends the three rangers and Sylune to Mistledale, joining the Riders of Mistledale, Knights of Myth Drannor, and Harpers of Twilight Hall to confront a force of Zhents and Sembian Mercenaries, the Sword of the South. 
Although the 7,000 strong force has the defenders greatly outnumbered, they triumph with superior magic. Baeros, elderly priest of Tempus and rider of Mistledale, is slain, calling the avatar of Tempus with his dying breath to take his body from the field. The rangers travel to defend Shadowdale, during the battle where Elminster and Midnight battle Bane. 
After the battle and Elminster’s supposed death, the rangers, Sylune, and Storm Silverhand set off hunting Malaugrym, who are causing chaos throughout the Realms and seeking revenge for the attack on the castle. Eventually, Shadowmaster Dhalgrave, having faked his death to steal Milvhar’s Cloak of Shadows, makes his move, striking down Laeral Silverhand, Storm, and Khelben Arunsun. His plan is foiled at the last second by Elminster, who returns and kills him. 
Huerbara, Dhalgrave’s daughter, and two Malaugrym named Hulurran and Gathran witness Dhalgrave’s death and begin plotting to make Huerbara Shadowmaster, but the Malaugrym are too divided by their many casualties to form an immediate threat. Belkram and Itharr are sent to help Randal Morn, and Sharantyr leaves the Knights to join them, the trio becoming known as the Rangers Three.