"An Introduction to Candlekeep" is a short story by Ed Greenwood written for the [http//candlekeep.com/ Candlekeep website].
The short story is preceded by a dedication, in which it is requested that this work not be duplicated elsewhere on the web. The text itself is prefaced by a fragment from Elminsters Daughter. The narration is interspersed with segments of background and game terms, which do not form part of it, but help in understanding it.
The story is about a supplicant to Candlekeep, a scribe named Theldrant Ornan. With a Tethyrian group ahead of him in the road as the sun sets over the Way of the Lion, he realizes they will not let him spend the night in their camp, and decides to cut across the forest, heading directly for Candlekeep rather than risk a night on the road.
Arriving to the monastery, he offers up an expensive book in excellent condition the Black Tome of Magely Might by Maskauman. The monks reject it, however, as their collection possesses a score of copies of the book already. He is extremely dejected, but the monks ask if he has other books hed like to share his only other book is a heavily degraded tome hes been using for paper scraps. The monks reveal to him that its a copy of Thalavoons Spells for my Sworn Mages, written in a cipher he failed to discern. Overcome by shame, he nonetheless accepts to trade it for entry.
Wide-eyed and somewhat disturbed, feeling intense guilt over his actions with the book he abused, he is startled by the monks. The Keeper of the Emerald Door reassures him that he wont be held to account for what he did to that book as he didnt know better, but warns him that hell be slain on the spot if he does that to any of their books. Hes then introduced to Belabra, another monk she holds him as he faints.
When he wakes up, hes still in her arms, but in a different room she reassures him, but warns him his time is limited. He is a witness to the Endless Chant, and admits hes indecisive as to what he wishes to see in Candlekeep. Soon, he blunders into a room where numerous books unleash deadly spells, and somehow finds himself in a different room after fainting, injured hes found by Othraun, a monk with the power to cast his sight through the books across Candlekeep. Othraun who warns him not to blunder into the wards of the Inner Rooms.
The story abruptly ends when Othraun reveals he was once injured while experimenting with books, and thats how he learned how to look through them.