Auroras Whole Realms Catalogue was a shopping catalogue produced by Aurora in order to facilitate her mail-order shopping business, as an extension of Auroras Emporium.
The main body of the catalogue was taken up with illustrated listings of various goods, ranging from common everyday tools to odd and esoteric devices.
A Word from Our Founder
The catalogue opened with a message to the customer that explained how Auroras business worked and how to place orders using the catalogue, including deposits, rush fees, and customizations.
Rangers Field
thumb|150px|A fishing tackle kit.
A selection of hunting and fishing gear, as well as specialized ranger tools like tree beds.
Thieves Corner
Questionably-legal tools for thieves to use in their mischief, such as tar makeup and caltrops.
Bards Emporium
Props and instruments for bards, including stilts, bamsmacks, and zithers.
Priests Alcove
thumb|200px|A priests razor and cap.
Clerical equipment like incense, aspergillums, and a wide array of material components for rituals.
Wizards Laboratory
Laboratory equipment for experimentation such as retorts and glass tubing, as well as various reagents for alchemical and magical processes.
Laborers List
thumb|100px|A set of hammers.
A wide selection of practical and useful work tools like awls, hoes, shears, and raw metals and molds for smithing.
Inn and Tavern
Common domestic accoutrements used in taverns and inns, from bowls and blankets to mugs and mops.
Scribes Desk
Various materials for scribes such as paper, papyrus, and pens, and a rainbow of inks and paints. It was very popular with the sages of Candlekeep.
Storage Items
A generous selection of baskets, barrels, crates, and chests.
General Hardware
thumb|100px|A block and tackle.
Miscellaneous useful tools, including paint brushes, shackles, and chain.
Tailors Corner
Sewing needles, scissors, and patterns, and an array of fabrics, skins, and dyes.
Clothes and Shoes
thumb|100px|A tabard.
Wardrobes full of slippers, capes, chemises, and purses.
Booms Garden
Various pieces of improbable and impractical gear made by Kar, including armored corsets and low-cut plate mail bustiers.
Jewelry
Popular pieces of jewelery like torcs, brooches, and fillets.
Household Accoutrements
Domestic items including hand mirrors and water clocks.
Personal Supplies
Tools for cleaning and grooming, like hair brushes, soap, and perfume.
Illuminations
thumb|150px|A warming lamp.
Every flavor of lamp and lantern imaginable.
Diversions
Toys and games, as well as nesting dolls, rocking mounts, and kaleidoscopes.
Auroras Larder
A selection of rare and common herbs, spices, and preserved foods.
Breads
Various crackers, breads, noodles.
Cheese Shop
thumb|150px|A wheel of nut cheese.
Cheeses like pepper cheese, Death Cheese, and yak butter.
Wines and Ales
Cellars-full worth of ales, beers, ciders, and wines, from Bitter Black to Westgate Ruby.
Exotics
thumb|150px|A heap of coffee.
Outlandish imported foods including tomatos, soya sauce, tabacco, and garum.
Wilderness Gear
Useful survival gear like tents, hammocks, rations, and canteens.
Priest in a Poke
thumb|150px|A set of surgical saws and shears.
A set of practical emergency medical tools, including bandages, splints, and tourniquets.
DaRonis Workshop
Ingenious and unique creations of Nadul DaRoni, like the furnace wagon and underwater boat.