Baldurs Gate II Shadows of Amn is the second book in the Baldurs Gate trilogy by Philip Athans and Drew Karpyshyn.
Abdel Adrian dreams of returning to Candlekeep, but the dream turns into a nightmare and he wakes in a dungeon. He was kidnapped shortly after defeating Sarevok. He is taken to a room with Jaheira, a man named Minsc, a miniature giant space hamster named Boo, and a Kozakuran man named Yoshimo. Together, they escape, encountering his adoptive sister Imoen and an attack by Shadow Thieves and Athkatlan militia. 
The Vampire Bodhi watches the battle. She and her brother Jon Irenicus were hired by the Shadow Thieves to kidnap Abdel and Imoen, but Jon kept them to run experiments instead, leading to the attack. Bodhi captures Imoen and Jaheira. Abdel emerges with the others and finds the Copper Coronet, where he encounters Gaelan Bayle, who offers to give him information on Imoen for 50,000 gold, and Bodhi in the guide of a human. Irenicus infiltrates Spellhold as a prisoner. Bodhi convinces Abdel to assassinate the Shadow Thief Aran Linvail to raise money, and when he is successful, tells him that Imoen and Jaheira are imprisoned in Spellhold. 
Abdel infiltrates Spellhold but is captured by Irenicus. He performs a ritual that turns Imoen and Abdel into avatars of Bhaal, revealing Imoen is also a Bhaalspawn, but they escape and he teleports away. The two Bhaalspawn turn back to normal and save Jaheira. They learn from a minotaur that Irenicus seeks to attack Suldanessellar and the trio follow him into the Underdark. 
Bodhi discusses Irenicus’s plan with Phaere Despana, a drow. Abdel and the others encounter Adalon, a silver dragon who offers to help them reach Suldanessellar in exchange for retrieving her eggs from the drow of Ust Natha, disguising them as drow with magic. Phaere and Bodhi discuss the plan to attack Suldanessellar, with Phaere intending to lead a drow army hoping to steal the power of the city’s mythal, although Bodhi secretly knows the city has no mythal. Bodhi plans to use Yoshimo, who was secretly her agent, to lure Abdel through the wrong gate and keep him from Suldanessellar. 
While in the city, Imoen sleeps with Phaere. Abdel and Jaheira retrieve the eggs along with Solausein, a male drow servant of Phaere, but the drow disguise wears off. Yoshimo joins Abdel and Jaheira, but Imoen prevents them from traveling through the gate, having learned of Yoshimo’s treachery from Phaere when they became intimate, and uses a wand stolen from Phaere to destroy the gate. They teleport with the eggs to Adalon and Yoshimo agrees to join the group when Imoen reveals Bodhi planned to kill him eventually. 
They travel to the surface and meet the elves of Suldanessellar, meeting the warrior Elhan and warning him of the threat to Ellesime, queen of Suldanessellar. Elhan explains that Bodhi and Irenicus were once elves who tried to destroy the Tree of Life to become immortal, and were turned to humans and banished when they failed. Elhan sends Abdel to Athkatla to kill Bodhi and retrieve the Rhynn Lanthorn, an artifact that will help reverse the spell Irenicus cast on him and Imoen and break the barrier Irenicus put around Suldanessellar. Abdel is successful, but Irenicus recaptures Imoen while he is gone. Irenicus turns Imoen into an avatar of Bhaal, and sends her to kill Ellisime. Elhan uses the Lanthorn to open Suldanessellar. Imoen kills Elhan and Yoshimo, but with the help of Ellesime, Abdel saves her from her Bhaal form. He defeats Irenicus.
Abdel Adrian
Booter • Imoen • Jaheira • Yoshimo • Jon Irenicus • Bodhi • Minsc • Aran Linvail • Saemon Havarian • Queen Ellesime • Ulraunt • Tethtoril