A bhaalspawn named Gerdon and his son Terrell are executed by an angry mob, as part of the panic and paranoia caused by the Bhaalspawn crisis.
Elsewhere, Abdel Adrian, Jaheira, and Imoen flee through the Forest of Tethir They are forced to stop by exhaustion. Abdel sleeps and finds himself transported to the Throne of Blood, the former realm of Bhaal, where he speaks to a solar that serves Ao. He wakes to find the group is under attack by Illasera, one of the Five, a group of powerful bhaalspawn that hunt their siblings.
Abdel kills Ilasera and is transported back to the Throne of Blood, where the spirit of Sarevok Anchev appears. Sarevok claims to be cleansed of the evil of Bhaal, and offers information in exchange for a portion of Abdel’s soul, which will restore him to life. Abdel agrees, and Sarevok tells him that answers can be found with a woman named Melissan in Saradush.
Three members of the Five assemble the essence of slain Bhaalspawn, and they plot against Abdel, as does Bhaals Anointed, the mysterious figure who assembled the group.
Abdel, Imoen, Jaheira, and Sarevok travel to Saradush and find it under siege. Imoen finds a way to sneak the group in through the sewers. They are discovered by calishite soldiers and taken to Gromnir Il-Khan, a bhaalspawn and a general from Calimshan who took over the town. Melissan frees them in time to repel an attack, and tells them of the Five, explaining that she lead many bhaalspawn to Saradush in search of sanctuary, but Yaga-Shura, a fire giant bhaalspawn and member of the Five, followed with an army and laid siege.
Abdel challenges Yaga-Shura to single combat. He kills the fire giant and is once again transported to the Throne of Blood. When he returns, he finds that the defenders of Saradush have faced a devastating counterattack despite Yaga-Shura’s death. Gromnir is killed, and a young red dragon grabs Jaheira and flies off with her.
Imoen and Melissan set off for Amkethran to take shelter with Balthazar, leader of the monastery there, while Abdel sets off after the dragon that took Jaheira. Melissan reveals the dragon likely answers to Abazigal, a half-dragon bhaalspawn and member of the Five. Unbeknownst to Abdel, Sarevok follows him.
The remaining three members of the Five, Abazigal, a drow assassin named Sendai, and an unknown tattooed figure, meet. Sendai sets off for Amkethran to assassinate Imoen, while Abazigal meets with a group of true dragons, hoping to convince them to ally with the Five, as the resurrection of Bhaal will cause so much death among humanoids that dragons can reclaim much power and influence.
Abdel arrives at Abazigal’s lair and confronts him, but Abazigal claims Jaheira is dead, her body fed to his dragon servants. Abdel is nearly overcome by the half-dragon’s magic. Elsewhere, Imoen and Melissan arrive at the monastery, but Imoen is soon killed by Sendai. Sarevok kills Abazigal and saves Abdel, but Abdel is forced to flee into the Throne of Blood once again to escape Abazigal’s dragons. He meets with Jaheira’s spirit, who explains that Abazigal told the truth and she is indeed dead. Melissan arrives at the monastery, realizing that Balthazar has been plotting against her with Sendai.
Abdel returns to find Sarevok has been seemingly killed in battle with Abazigals dragons. He hunts the Five, desperate to avenge Jaheira’s death. Sendai ambushes Abdel in the Forest of Mir, but Abdel turns into the Ravager and kills her. Balthazar, revealed to be a bhaalspawn and the last of the Five, awaits Abdel’s arrival. Soon, Abdel arrives and they battle. During the fight, Balthazar reveals that Melissan is Bhaal’s Anointed and has been manipulating the bhaalspawn from the start.
Melissan arrives at the Throne of Blood and begins ascending to godhood with the essence released by all the slain Bhaalspawn. The solar warns her but cannot stop her, so it appears to Balthazar, who has defeated Abdel, and explains her plan. Balthazar allows Abdel to kill him, since doing so will transport him to the Throne of Blood. Abdel defeats Melissan and gives up the essence of Bhaal that dwells within him. He returns to Faerûn and sets off for Candlekeep.
Abdel Adrian • Jaheira
Amelyssan • Illasera • Sarevok • Abazigal • Yaga-Shura • Balthazar • Gromnir Il-Khan
Amkethran •
Miscellaneous
Bhaalspawn • Harpers
deBaldurs Gate II Throne of Bhaal (Roman)
CategoryNovels
CategoryBooks
CategoryWorks by Drew Karpyshyn
CategoryPublished in 2001
f57v2hh4a9clnr801d0omtwpc36dut7