The Book of Exalted Deeds was the supreme written authority of goodness in all the multiverse. The fabled treatise featured prominently in many religions, though rather than being scripture devoted to one particular faith, its various authors filled the pages with their own vision of virtue and guidance for besting evil. A font of wisdom and enlightenment to those of pure heart and firm conviction, the book manifested in those corners of the cosmos where its moral guidance could bring light to dark worlds.
thumb|280px|A celestial being reading from the Book.
The tome was held shut by a clasp that resembled the wings of an angel.
Only virtuous and goodly beings could open and glean insight from the Book of Exalted Deeds, evil creatures that attempted to do so were struck down with intense radiant energy, possibly to their utter destruction, while others of moral ambiguity could read its text but not gain any significant information.
After spending one week or 80 hours studying the book, goodly creatures could gain one or more of several boons, including a greater insight into all manner of subjects, increased power when casting divine magic, and even an angelic halo that bolstered the readers radiant presence and protected them from both fiends and undead. It was said that if any arcane spellcaster were to read from the book, they could possibly lose a portion of their intellect.
Following a reading, the great tome transported to some other location among the planes in illuminate the moral outlook of others facing darkness and evil, and was reportedly unreadable by the same person. It was entirely impossible to transcribe or otherwise reproduce the content written within the Book of Exalted Deeds and it was rumored to be entirely indestructible. This last belief was mostly true, however it could be rendered inert and functionally useless for a matter of years if it was submerged within the waters of the River Styx.
Reading from the tome was a requirement for attuning to the wards of suffering, a pair of holy bracers, as well as the ward of faithfulness, a gauntlet imbued with powerful magics.
It was considered to be a form of holy scripture to many goodly divine spellcasters.
At some point during the late 15 century DR, a child name Dara read from the Book of Exalted Deeds, which granted her the full powers of an Ilmatari priest. It also bestowed upon her a divine quest to rescue the souls of fallen heroes and lost angels from the Nine Hells.