| series      = The Empires trilogy
| preceded_by = Dragonwall
| followed_by = none
Crusade, by James Lowder, is the final book in The Empires trilogy.
Characters
Azoun • Alusair Obarskyr • Harcourt • Yamun Khahan
Items
glowrod
King Azoun Obarskyr IV of Cormyr calls a council of the nearby realms of Faerûn to organize a crusade against the Tuigan invaders. The dwarven king Torg mac Cei of Earthfast agrees to join the crusade, along with the cities of Ravens Bluff, Tantras, and Hillsfar. Sembia funds transport and hires mercenaries, and the Dalelands agree to send soldiers on the condition that the Zhentarim do the same. The Zhentarim agree to send soldiers on the condition that Cormyr leaves the Darkhold alone for the period of a year. The trappers guild is unhappy with the war, and a disgruntled member tries to assassinate Azoun with a fireball, but fails. 
Among the volunteers to join the crusade are a fletcher named Razor John and two adventurers, Malmondes of Suzail and Kiri Trollslayer. Azoun discovers his runaway daughter Alusair Obarskyr is among the dwarven army as a military advisor. Malmondes kills a man in a barfight and is hanged. The Alliance of the West fights a battle against the Tuigan, losing all their cavalry but driving the Tuigan back with the arrival of Torg and his dwarven army. 
They find a defensible spot and fight the Second Battle of the Golden Way. King Torg is killed by Yamun Khahan, but King Azoun kills Yamun. The Tuigan survivors turn on each other, scattering into small armies and roving bands all across Thesk. The survivors of the Zhentarim army, nine hundred orc soldiers, set up an outpost in Thesk. Azoun sees the crusades success as proof that Cormyr, the Sales, and Sembia should unite. Alusair agrees to return home to Azoun after she settles her remaining affairs from her time adventuring. Razor John and Kiri Trollslayer get married.
Crusade map - cormyr sembia.png|The map of Cormyr, Sembia, the Dalelands, and the Moonsea, featured in the Crusade novel.
CategoryNovels
CategoryBooks
CategoryWorks by James Lowder
CategoryPublished in 1991
CategoryThe Horde novels
crkeewedf81a8zw7bky1yke3uaxjozx