,After time traveling to 3520 NY (−339 DR), it is repeatedly stated to be 358 years later, implying the early parts are set in −697 DR. The "Presenting...Seven Millennia of Realms Fiction" chronology rounds this to c. −700 DR. 
Dangerous Games is the second book in the Netheril trilogy by Clayton Emery.
Sunbright and Candlemas, after having escaped from the Lower Planes, find themselves back in Netheril. The mage, Candlemas, continues on working on a cure for the grain blight affecting the crops around the empire. Sunbright, however, wishes to find a way to rescue his lover, Greenwillow, from the infernal layer that he had managed to escape from. As the two companions walk the surface of Faerûn, they discover a great chunk of star metal. They approach the star, but the almost god-like arcanist, Great Karsus, confronts them he has travelled 358 years into the past just to find the fallen star. Karsus, with his incredible power, transports them forward to his time, from 3162 NY (-698 DR) to 3520 NY (-340 DR).
The trio arrive in the conclave known as Karsus, of course named after the extremely popular and powerful mage. Karsus begins on developing "heavy magic", whilst Candlemas finds love with Karsus cousin, Aquesita, and Sunbright ventures further into the city. Here, Sunbright meets Knucklebones, a half-elf thief with the knack for getting out of dangerous situations.
Karsus begins to panic as he realizes his enemies, the phaerimm, are trying to dismantle his work. Becoming even more insane, Karsus initiates a war against the enclave of Ioulaum, the home of a rival arcanist. The crazed Karsus channels a spell to elevate him beyond mortality, but as he does so, the phaerimm attack him. Karsus repels the aberrations and attempts to become a god. Even the goddess of magic, Mystryl, cannot withstand the drive of Karsus, and she sacrifices herself to repel him. At this point, the Netherese Empire begins to collapse, and the conclaves fall to the ground. Candlemas, Sunbright, and Knucklebones escape the disaster, and find themselves back in the past.
Aba • Aquesita • Candlemas • Corah • Gibor • Hamuda • Hurodon • Hute • Jules • Kalle • Karsus • Knucklebones • Krikor • Lothar • Magda • Martel • Mystra • Nibaw • Ox • Polaris • Rolon • Seda • Sleeping Gunn • Sunbright Steelshanks • Umeko • Wulgreth • Zykta
Angeni • Baron Onan • Behira • Blindrum • Damita • Dorlas • Drigor • Greenwillow • Kas • Lucke • Mandisa • Mika • Owldark • Pericles • Radman • Roni • Rushworth •  Sleeping Gunn • Sysquemalyn • Thornwing • Xanad • Zahn
badger • cardinal • catfish • dust devil • dwarf • giant flea • fish • half-elf • hawk • horse • human (Netherese • Rengarth) • lich • lizard • mastiff • phaerimm • porcupine • rabbit • raptor • shadeling • skeleton • spider golem • trout • zombie
amphisbaena • badger • bear (black, brown) • beetle • bird • chickadee • cockroach • cricket • deer • dragon • eagle • elf • elk • firefly • frog • gnome • hummingbird • medusa • mole • mouse • orc • ox • panther • parrot • peeper • possum • seal • shrew • snake • squirrel • stork • termite • tiger • undead • vampire • vulture • warbler • wolf
Karsuss Folly
ale • ballista • beer • brandy • bread • brimstone • bronze • chalk • cheese • chert • granite • ham • iron • lance • leather armor • mace • mother of pearl • nickel • porridge • quicksilver • raspberry • ring • robe • sapphire • sai • sausage • silver • slate • star metal • steel • sword • telescope • warhammer • wine
adamantine • anthrax • apple • arsenic • barley • belladonna • catapult • cyanide • date • gold • kaleidoscope • lead • marble • melon • nightshade • rye • sai • sugar • tea • telescope • venison • wheat
Academy of Mentalist Study • Barren Mountains • Bello • Blackwater Bog • Delia • Emperors Park • Ioulaum • Iron Mountains • Netheril
Bone Hill • Cormanthyr • Dire Woods • Frosttop • Ger • High Forest • Mystryls Mound • Nine Hells • Patrician Peak • Rampant Peaks • Shadow Consortium • Street of Lilacs • Street of the Golden Willows • Sunrest • Thunder Peak • Underdark
Spells
Aksas shatter • color spray • detect magic • dimensional folding • feather fall • General Maticks shield • glowlight • immunity to gasses • incendiary cloud • levitation • Noaners fireball • Proctivs rock-mud transformation • protect from getting lost • Ptacks brittleness • shatter barrier • spell at maximum effect • Stocas wings • taunt • traction • Trebbes invulnerability • Valdicks spheresail • Veridons chiller • worldweave • Yongs imprisonment • Yturns feather fall
Aksas disintegrate • Brightfingers stonebind • burning hands • catfeet • color • dimension door • grease • mouse • Pockalls hex • Proctivs dig • smokepuff • Smolyns seer • Stocas feign • tangle • Tolodines gust of wind • Volhms drain • Zahns location
Weapons
Harvester of Blood
Misc cantra • heavy magic • Inventive • Mentalism • Necromancy • planar magic • super heavy magic • Variation • ward • Weave
mythallar
Bonebreakers • House of Danelt • House of Dreng • House of Zee • Netherese Empire
Raven Tribe • Sons of Baltar
alder • ash • birch • elm • forsythia • henbane • maple • oak • pine • rowan • rose • sassafras • thyme • willow
Cappis Cat • crystal sphere • Elder Days • football • The Sled
Amaunator • Chauntea • Jergal • Moander • Mystryl • Selûne • Shar • Talos • Targus • Tyche