"Dark Mirror" is a short story by R.A. Salvatore included in the 1993 anthology Realms of Valor. It sees Drizzt DoUrden try to help a goblin slave.
Following the retaking of Mithral Hall, Drizzt DoUrden has been invited to Silverymoon and is on his way there when he finds some monster tracks escorting prisoners. He joins a band of villagers from a tiny community called Pengallen, led by Rico Pengallen, who pursue the same goal. Together, they find the camp but, before Drizzt can rescue the prisoners peacefully, the humans are spotted and a fight breaks out. The monsters are defeated, but one of the prisoners, a goblin named Nojheim, flees. Rico asks Drizzt to bring Nojheim back to Pengallen, saying he is a raider held for trial, and Drizzt agrees, but suspects something odd going on.
Drizzt retrieves Nojheim, bringing him to Pengallen as promised, and elects to stay and have a meal. But there, Drizzt discovers that Nojheim is actually Ricos slave. He goes back and starts talking to Nojheim, finding him abused but intelligent and good-hearted. He realizes that, despite the depraved nature of most drow even in comparison to goblins, his mystique and beauty allow him a foothold in the human world, while a goblin of similar principles to his own stands no such chance. Drizzt learns to feel less prejudice towards goblins and other brutish races.
He decides to try to free Nojheim by appealing to Silverymoon. But when Drizzt returns, he finds Nojheim dead, executed by Rico on some pretext after he overheard Drizzt and Nojheims conversation. Leaving, Drizzt greatly steels his resolve against slavery.
Characters
Aganis • Guenhwyvar • Nojheim • Tharman • Drizzt DoUrden • Rico Pengallen • Jak Timberline
Alustriel Silverhand • Bruenor Battlehammer • Catti-brie • Shimmergloom • Wulfgar • Zaknafein DoUrden
Creatures
drow • human • goblin • orc • ogre
bugbear • dragon • duergar • mind flayer • shield dwarf
Locations
Buildings & Sites River Surbrin
Settlements Pengallen • Silverymoon
Realms Silver Marches
Astral Plane • Nesme • Menzoberranzan • Mithral Hall • Faerûn • River Rauvin • Spine of the World • Sundabar • Underdark
Religion
Lolth • Ilmater
Organizations
Clan Battlehammer
Miscellaneous
Icingdeath • figurine of wondrous power • infravision • ranger • Taulmaril • Twinkle