Fiction Qawasha & Kupalué Part Three is the third and final part of a three-part short story written by Adam Lee which was featured in Dragon+ Issue #19 as a tie-in to the Tomb of Annihilation adventure. Part One was featured in Dragon+ Issue #15 while Part Two was featured in Dragon+ Issue #16.
As Qawasha, Samrith Vess, and Zara near the ruins of Mezro, they happen upon a group of chwingas, one of which takes a liking to Samrith and gifts her a charm made from a mushroom cap. Arriving at the ruins, they make their way through the outskirts and are beset by a horde of zombies. At the last moment, they are saved by Kupalué and its fellow vegepygmies. The four of them proceed to the Maze of Life, where the chwingas charm causes Qawasha to have a vision of Mezro in its prime. The vision then shifts to a long-lost city in the jungle containing a dark passage in which he briefly meets a series of nine trickster gods until suddenly be beholds a terrifying artifact created by a lord of the undead and connected to a grotesque monster. Through this vision, he is granted an understanding of the history of the things he sees, and realizes that the artifact is "choking all life across the world." He then finds himself before a council of the barae, and a woman helps him understand that only if the things he saw are destroyed can Mezro return to the world once more. Awakening from his vision, Qawasha tells his companions what he learned, and they plot to travel to the lost city and destroy the artifact.
Kupalué • Qawasha • Samrith Vess • Zara
Acererak (not named)
atropal (not named) • chwinga • human (Chultan, Tethyrian) • vegepygmy • undead (zombie)
bird • hornet • snake • spider • tiger • wraith
Equipment  backpack • boots
Food and drink  fruit • hardtack
Weapons  staff • sword
prybar • rowboat • scythe
Buildings & Sites  Maze of Life • Tomb of the Nine Gods (not named)
Regions  Chult • Olung River Valley
Rivers  River Olung
Settlements  Mezro • Omu (not named)
Grand Coliseum • Moonshae Isles • Nine Hells • Port Nyanzaru
Spells  barkskin • shillelagh
Other  death curse (not named) • Soulmonger (not named) • Spellplague
flying carpet • spellbook
barae
nine trickster gods • Oghma • Ubtao
Classes and Occupations  adventurer • druid • warrior • wizard
Materials  coral • crystal • metal
Plants  mushroom • strangler fig • vine • wazingo
Other  poison • sun • tsunami