Earthmothers Weapons was a spellbook written by a druid of Chauntea who created several unique spells to fight her circles foes on the Moonshae Isles.
Earthmothers Weapons was a broad book whose pages were made of dyed plant fibers, carefully woven together to form small tapestries of pictures and magic symbols. The pictures depicted natural creatures and scenes, druids casting spells, as well as the Earthmothers Children. Some pages also contained passages written in Illuskan.
The book was bound with thin cow leather, and a leather strip held bookmark carved from a human jawbone. Ornamenting the front cover was an embossed picture representing a sheaf of grain. Due to wear and tear, the book looked very old.
The first section of the book described prayers to the Earthmother, asking for her help and protection in times of war.
The remainder of the book detailed four magical spells created by a druid to help fight the forces of Bhaal and Malar. One spell created a bone talisman, granting its owner powers against undead creatures. Another one caused severe frostbite to its victim. The third spell made the casters flesh taste horrible bad, while the last one let the caster assume the form of a wolf.
Although non magical, the book was imbued with substances making it resilient against damage caused by fire and water.
While the precise creation date of the Earthmothers Weapons was unknown, sages agreed that it was likely anterior to 1000 DR. It was written by the druid Bryn Kernwyld during to help her brethren during the wars which opposed the forces of Malar and Bhaal and the civilized people inhabiting the islands. Those spells proved a great help to minimize the damage wars caused to the surrounding nature.
After its writing, knowledge of the spells described in the book was passed down between druids by oral tradition, while the actual tome was kept safe by senior members of their order.
During the  Malarite forces managed to kill Marath Haldewn, the current leader of the circle, and stole the book from her. The druids managed to take revenge upon the attackers, but the book was nowhere to be found.
The book resurfaced during the , when it was found on the island of  Gwynneth by an adventuring party. It was however soon lost again due a magical mishap caused by the events of the Time of Troubles.
It was finally found again sometimes before  in the High Forest. It was discovered in a cave by Galast, a quasilycanthrope druid at the service of Malar. Ignoring the origin of the book, Galast learnt and used the spells described therein. His deity, considering the spells useful, granted the druid access to these spells.