| refs5e        = 
| communication = 
| languages     = 
| alignment     = 
| sentientrefs  = 
| nocat         = 
Extracts – The Rule of Three was an well-beloved book dedicated to the art of alchemy that saw a 50 anniversary edition printing in the late 15 century DR.
The 50 anniversary edition of Extracts – The Rule of Three was advertising its contents on the back cover, saying that it was "the most famed and comprehensive beginners guide to all things alchemy, in a beautiful 50th-anniversary edition. Now with a foreword by Adynn Ilvar."
Despite this claim, the book penned by Haskinn Xhesilaphin had a lot of personal history of the alchemist, beginning with a longwinded introduction. The tome printed Haskinns notes as they were, allegedly, to help the masses learn alchemy. The books opener included the entire section of the dragonborn history and the incident from Haskinns youth that left them de-scaled as a teenager. Then, the book stated that master Xhesilaphin used alchemy to find a way to regrow their lost scales in the years to follow. The books contents never gotten to be more academic instead, Extracts – The Rule of Three waxed poetics of how Haskinn prioritized helping commoners over their alchemic research.
Among actual lore on alchemy recorded in the book, Haskinn Xhesilaphin talked about the the Rule of Three – in their opinion, all ingredients need to be refined to be used in alchemy, and in order to do that, one needed three portions of the same ingredient. They also provided the reader is a "rhyme" that supposedly helped them remember the Rule of Three.
One could also find a recipe for a potion of healing on the books pages. Haskinns formula called for salts of rogues morsel fungus and a suspension of mergrass. Their methodology was as follows the suspension was swirled in a vortex, then the salts were carefully poured in and dissolved. Eventually, the liquid turned red and gained the healing properties.
*Ilyn Toth, a healer and a secret Red Wizard of Thay from the village of Moonhaven, raised in the .