century DR
Fables of Faerûn was a collection of short stories and parables collected from across the Realms.
Each entry in the Fables of Faerûn was a rather thin book with a green cover.
The tale told of a drow wizard of Menzoberranzan named Zad, who studied the Art in Sorcere. There, the academys Archmage met with Zad every tenday to see the wizards progression in magic and every tenday Zad failed. The Archmage threatened Zad with expulsion due to his poor scholarship. Desperate to remain with Sorcere, the wizard snuck out at night into Oryndoll, the city of mind flayers, to peruse its massive arcane library. But even finding the city proved to be a failure. The longer Zad searched for it in the Underdark, the more lost he got. Eventually, the wizard collapsed, hungry and tired. When he regained consciousness, Zad woke up surrounded by books of Oryndoll, restrained. The next thing he saw was an illithid tadpole entering his left eye.
The Daring Duergar told the story of Shull, a young duergar psionicist who was eager to attain as much power as he could. Shull was directed by an individual known as the Godfather to attain greater power from the mind flayer Ir, who dwelled in a chasm near the Darklake.
Shull learned all of Irs secrets, including the ability to destroy a creatures mind by thought alone. Ir warned Shull however, the power could only be used one before it became "forever forgotten". Shull returned to the Godfather, eager to demonstrate his new power. Shull grinned at his master and used the mind-destroying power, exploding his own skull in the process. The Godfather had completed Shulls final lesson.
The Enticing Elder was a story about two sisters, one a powerful warrior and another a devout cleric, and their journeys through the Underdark. During their four-tenday adventure, they slew all manner of monsters and creatures, including derro, darklings, bulettes, and bugbears. At the end of their trek, they came across a colony of mind flayers, and slew many of their numbers as well.
Finally, the sisters awakened the elder brain Qaoz in the heart of the mind flayer colony. Each stated their desires the fighter sought to destroy the aberration and end its dominion over the region, while the cleric wanted to take on its psionic powers as her own. After a brief moment, the elder brain easily slew each sister with little more than a thought and fed their remains to the surviving mind flayers.
This story told of a small boy who lived with his shepherd father on the banks of the River Chionthar. Bored with his humdrum life, the boy repeatedly ran around yelling "Beholder! Beholder!", much to his fathers alarm. The boy laughed in amusement time and again as he scared his father with this game.
A few days after he had tricked his father, the boy saw a large, spherical figure, with distinct eye stalks, floating off in the distance. The "beholder" stalked the boy along the rivers edge until he could run no more. The creature revealed was in fact the shepherd himself, dressed in a cloak and wreathed in vines. The shepherd got his revenge on his son, and taught him a valuable lesson he would not forget.
The sixth volume of the series shared the tale of the indomitable deep gnome slave-miner named Doyle. Doyle and his brother worked tirelessly for their duergar overlords, and were pushed to the point of exhaustion, yet Doyle always kept a smile. He would even say he wished his masters much success, as they mined ore for duergar weaponry. As the duergar created more and better wares, they brought on more slaves to their operations, and Doyle became all the more elated.
Until the final day when there were 21 deep gnomes including Doyle and his brother. Doyle whooped with such glee that the duergar avoided his presence for peace and quiet some ways away. It was then that Doyle and the gnomes all equipped themselves with mithral armor and weaponry, and set upon their tormentors. Doyle remained ever-joyful throughout the entire rebellion.