| setting      = 
| game_edition = 
| edition1     = Paperback
| binding1     = Paperback
| released1    = July 1997
| pages1       = 314
| isbn10-1     = 0-7869-0658-8
| isbn13-1     = 978-0-7869-0658-1
| cite1        = 
| edition2     = Ebook
| binding2     = Ebook
| released2    = October 16, 2012
| pages2       = 
| isbn10-2     = 
| isbn13-2     = 978-0-7869-6408-6
| cite2        = Ebook
| series       = The Lost Gods (1 of 3)The Harpers (15 of 16)
| preceded_by  = &mdash (The Lost Gods)Stormlight (The Harpers)
| followed_by  = Fistandantilus Reborn (The Lost Gods)Thornhold (The Harpers)
Finders Bane, by Kate Novak and Jeff Grubb, is the fifteenth book in The Harpers series. It later became the first book in the plane-spanning The Lost Gods trilogy.
Joel, a priest of the god Finder Wyvernspur, is making a pilgrimage to the Lost Vale on the advice of Jedidiah, an older priest. While passing through Daggerdale, he encounters Holly Harrowslough, a paladin of Lathander, fighting the Zhentarim. They meet up with Randal Morn, who sends a man named Bear to escort Joel, but Bear is a traitor who worships Iyachtu Xvim. He turns Joel over to the church and Holly is captured trying to rescue him. 
Walinda of Bane, a priestess who slaughtered the crew of a spelljammer, kidnapped and tortured its captain Jas, a winged human. She turns over Jas to the Xvim priests, as well as letting them slaughter her hundreds of followers. Joel, Holly, Jas, and Walinda escape, but Bear follows them. Jedidiah reveals himself as the person Bear, turned into a dark stalker, was tracking. He transfers some of his power into one half of the Finders Stone, which is stolen by Walinda, who gives it to her master, a banelich she believes to be Banes essence. 
Joel and Jedidiah agree to retrieve the Hand of Bane from Sigil in order to trade it for the Finders Stone. They go to the Lost Vale, where Jedediah reveals himself as Finder. They then travel to a gate to the Outlands. 
Holly and Jas attempt to kill the banelich, but fail. Joel and Finder salvage the agreement but have to leave the women behind. Holly is teleported to Sigil by a servant of Lathander, believing that the servant will watch over Jas. However, the servant leaves her to be captured and turned into a dark stalker. With the help of Holly and her friend, the paladin Bors, Joel and Finder retrieve the Hand of Bane, but Holly is kidnapped by Walinda. The banelich fails to resurrect Bane, and is destroyed by Finder and Joel. Jas overcomes her dark stalker curse and retains her humanity, and Holly takes the remains of the Hand of Bane.
Adenu • Bane • Bear • Bors • Branson • Butternut • Copperbloom • Ditz • Erendis • Finder Wyvernspur • Grypht • Jedidiah • Karva • Jasmine • Joel • General Horse • Handful • Holly Harrowslough • Ilsensine • Pan Ho • Randal Morn • Shi-shi • Walinda
Akabar Bel Akash • Alias • Anathar • Arthur • Burl • Elminster • King of Cormyr • Lady of Pain • Moander • Mordenkainen • Lord Morngrim • General Pien • Olive Ruskettle • Sapphire • Shraevyn • Tiamat • Vecna
Aoskar • Iyachtu Xvim • Lathander • Tymora
Celestial Emperor • Chauntea • Gzemnid • Lich Queen • Milil • Oghma • Selûne • Torm • Tyr • Yen-Wang-Yeh
Organizations
Beast cult • Celestial Bureaucracy • Church of Bane • Church of Cyric • Church of Finder Wyvernspur • Church of Iyachtu Xvim • Faerûnian pantheon • Order of the Aster
Titles
Acolyte • Avatar • Chosen • Dreadmaster • Dread Sister • High priest • Novice • Ruinlord • Vermin (title)
Baatezu • Banelich • Bariaur • Bee • Beholder • Blue jay • Boar • Carp • Cat • Dark stalker • Deer • Dwarf • Elf • Firestar • Giant • Giff • Go-zu oni • Grell • Griffon • Horse • Human • Jackdaw • Lion dog • Mind flayer • Modron • Peacock • Petitioner • Saurial (Bladeback • Finhead • Flyer • Hornhead) • Skeleton • Spirit • Tanarri • Warbler • Zombie
Bull • Cardinal • Centaur • Chipmunk • Crab • Dog • Dragon • Elephant • Fox • Giant spider • Githyanki • Goose • Harpy • Hawk • Lark • Men-shen • Moth • Ogre • Orc • Owl • Pidgeon • Ram • Rat • Raven • Satyr • Snake • Squirrel • Tiefling • Vampire • Vulture • Wolf
Dalefolk • Kara-Turan
Tuigan • Zakharan (ethnicity)
Abeir-Toril • Anathars Dell • Anauroch • Astral Plane • Border Forest • Cats Gate • Caverns of Thought • Daggerdale • Dalelands • Desertsmouth Mountains • Ethereal plane • Flaming Tower • Giants Craw • Multiverse • North Ride • Palace of Judgement (Hall of Confused Dreams) • Lost Vale • Outlands • Realms • Shattered Temple • Shraevyns Tomb • Sigil • Singing Cave • Spiderhaunt Wood • Spire • Temple in the Sky • Tesh • Tethyamar Trail
Abyss • Acheron • Ashabenford • Bedlam • Berdusk • Civic Festhall • Color pool • Conduit • Cormyr • Dagger Falls • Gzemnids Realm • Kara-Tur • Mazes • Netheril • Nine Hells • Rigus • Shadowdale • Teshendale • Waterdeep • Zakhara
Harpers • Society of Sensation • Zhentarim
Anarchists • Athar • Bardic college • Bardic college of Berdusk • Dustmen • Faction • Godsmen
Items
Feather token • Finders Stone • Hand of Bane • Holy water • Phylactery • Portal • Relic • Wand
Spells
Animate dead • Bless • Chariot of Sustarre • Calm animals • Charm • Coldfire • Command • Create food and water • Cure wounds • Faerie fire • Fireball • Heat metal • Light • Locate object • Silence • Speak with animals • Spiritual hammer • Teleport
Vorpal
Armor
Armor • Bracer • Breastplate • Helmet • Leather armor • Plate armor • Scale armor • Skullcap
Food & drink
Ale • Almond • Beef • Boar meat • Bread • Cabbage • Carrot • Honey • Noodles • Onion • Pie • Potato • Stew • Tea • Wine
Materials
Acid • Ash • Brass • Bronze • Copper • Diamond • Emerald • Garnet • Gem • Gold • Granite • Iron • Lead • Marble • Obsidian • Paper • Parchment • Ruby • Sand • Silk • Silver • Steel • Velvet • Wool
Musical instruments
Birdpipes • Harp • Horn • Lute
Weapons
Battering ram • Bolt • Club • Crossbow • Goad • Dagger • Mace • Sword (Cutlass • Short sword)
Miscellaneous
Apron • Backpack • Belt • Blouse • Book • Boots • Brazier • Bucket • Cloak • Crop • Cup • Egg • Eyeglasses • Flagon • Hammer • Incense • Jug • Manacles • Needle • Pickaxe • Pipe • Pouch • Quill • Quiver • Robe • Rope • Skirt • Spelljammer (Nautiloid) • Staff • Sledgehammer • Tabacco • Torque • Trousers • Tunic
Bacon • Coal • Gauntlet • Leather • Oil • Shield • Spear • Torch • Vanilla • Vinegar
Daisy • Evergreen • Grass • Oak • Pine • Poppy
Gardenia • Honeysuckle • Rose • Tulip
Time of Troubles
Adventurer • Bard • Bookseller • Cook • Guard • Merchant • Peasant • Priest • Soldier • Tout • Warrior (Fighter • Paladin) • Wizard
Askara
Ballad of the Dream Weaver • Button song • Dalesmans Holiday • Jonsten the Rover • Market Day • The River of Life • Tears of Selûne • Toasting Song
Crystal sphere • Darts • Dwarvish • Kara-Turan language • Lay on Hands • Ninepins • Selûne (moon) • The Sun • Tears of Selûne