| reprinted   =
| type        = Accessory/adventure
| realm year  = 1367 DR
| binding     = Boxed set
| pages       = 32-page book5 12-page bookstri-fold cardstock screen4 monster pagesfold-out map
| isbn10      = 
| isbn13      = 
| series      = ALQ
| preceded_by = 
| followed_by = Assassin Mountain
Golden Voyages is a 2-edition Advanced Dungeons & Dragons boxed set. It is part of the Al-Qadim campaign setting and set in Zakhara.
In Golden Voyages, the player characters are cast adrift on the Crowded Sea, then sent on side-trips to the Strait of Sorrow and the Steaming Isles. The linking story sends the PCs on a rambling ocean voyage to seek a Great Treasure in an archipelago thick with wonders. The Dungeon Master chooses one of ten Treasures suited to the inclinations of his group (power gamers, warlords, role-players, story-tellers, or puzzle solvers), then plants clues that lure the PCs through seven mini-adventures in any order the DM likes.
The first book, Home Port Wherein the Tale Begins is a 32-page book that includes an outline of the Golden Voyages campaign, the framing story encounters (beginning in the Pearl Cities), descriptions of the possible Great Treasure (the object of the adventure), expanded rules on ships and sailing, and background on the ways of Zakharan sailors. The last part of this booklet contains additional rules and background.
The second book, The Crowded Sea al-Sartan, is a 16-page booklet that describes the islands that form Jazayir al-Sartan. It includes descriptions of topography, tribes, and The Great and Dread God, an adventure set in these islands.
The third book, The Crowded Sea Nada al-Hazan, is a 16-page booklet. It covers the Nada al-Hazan (Strait of Sorrow) chain, including the trading port of Bandar al-Saadat. Two adventures, A Night in Town and The Isle of Sadness, are set in these islands.
The fourth book, The Crowded Sea The Djinnis Claws is a 16-page booklet that details the deadly archipelago known as the Djinnis Claws. Several small adventures, Servitude, Broken Talons, and Shark Food are set in these islands.
The fifth and final book, The Crowded Sea The Steaming Isles, is a 16-page booklet about the fog-shrouded and volcanic Steaming Isles, and the perils and treasures found there. Praise be the Loregiver is set on these islands.
Also included is a 16-page booklet containing maps used in the adventures, useful DM aids, deck plans, and player handouts for Golden Voyages. A Monstrous Compendium is also part of the boxed set.
 Appearing
 Blade of Mastery • Book of Lore • The Crab Gods Shell • Earring of Prince Mamoon • Judgment of Abd Hikmat • Oracle of the Hakima • Seal of Fate • Spear of the Wandering Legion • Umar al-Rubbans Suwar • Voice of the Great Lion
 Appearing
 Diyab al-Jaradi • Fayiz • Husam Ibn Aasim al-Zalim • Kerim • Mauj • Sultan Yusef al-Wadi
 Referenced only
 Khalid al-Zayir • Umar al-Rubban 
 Appearing
 Bahriyin • Nakhuda • Rubban • Rubbaniyah
 Appearing
 Festival of the Pearl
 Appearing
 Compass • Cross staff • Daftar • Kamal • Rahmani
 Regions
 Afyal • Crowded Sea • Golden Gulf • Pearl Coast
 Settlements
 Gana • Huzuz • Ibn Mutamin • Jumlat • Tajar
 Coelenite • Ogrima • Sartani
 Referenced only
 Marid • Reef giant
 Appearing
 Baghla • Barijah • Boom (ship) • Sambuk • Zaruq
 Referenced only
 Dhow
 Referenced only
 Geas • Magic missile • Sundazzle • Wall of fire
Golden Voyages Back Cover.jpg|Back Cover