"The Tombs of Deckon Thar"Page 1 of Lords of Darkness instead titles this adventure "Wights", both in its table of contents and when crediting Steve Perrin as its author, and marks that it begins on page 22 rather than 21. is a short adventure by Steve Perrin included in the 1988 accessory Lords of Darkness for 1 edition Dungeons & Dragons. Intended for a group of 3 to 4 level player characters, they must explore the titular Tombs of Deckon Thar while fighting off a cadre of wights who make their home in the Tombs.
The adventure begins with the sun setting as a group of adventurers stumble upon a natural entryway in the Nether Mountains cliff face, one that leads into a hidden valley. Therein, they find two clearly-decrepit buildings which stand before seven large burial mounds. As the valley grows darker, they explore and begin to realize that the first, and smaller, of the ruined buildings was once a stable and the other a great hall. 
Night falls and the party makes camp in the valley, but, unbeknownst to them, they are being watched by the wight soldiers of Vinjarek the Mound King, who rules from a cave beneath the largest mound. Though scared off by light, the wights are instructed to steal the life force of the intruders, as they did when a caravan of merchants hid in the valley not long before. The adventurers, however, prove to be tougher prey. The wights escape into tunnels, excavated beneath the entirety of the valley, whose entrances they hide using large stones. Despite this, the tunnels cause patterns of grass and plants to grow less vibrantly than their neighbors, revealing the underground path. 
Inspecting the mounds themselves, there are clear signs of grave robbery, with little valuables left above ground beyond the rusted tools of the grave robbers themselves, but so too are there signs of a struggle, one that left no bodies behind. 
Eventually, whether by following the trail of the grave robbers or that of the ambushing wights, the adventurers snake down the narrow tunnels beneath the valley and into the tombs that rest below, where more wights hide along the walls to strike. At the tunnels end, the party faces off against Vinjarek and his horde of wights, marking the adventures conclusion upon slaying him and claiming the treasure he hides beyond his underground throne room.
|ref = 
|ref = 
 •