Mhzentuls Runes was the spellbook and workbook of the famous mage Mhzentul, who lived in Faerûn during the 13 and 14 centuries DR.
The thin but heavy tome contained twelve pages of vellum bound with silk, sealed with a red wax that was imbued with the blood of a dragon. The covers were made of oiled wood that was wrapped in the stretched skin of a wyvern. It featured a number of scorch marks roughly the size of a finger.
The first four pages of Mhzentuls Runes contained precise and detailed descriptions on how to create and enchant a ring of spell storing. Four of the seven lost rings of Mhzentul were known to have been of this particular variety.
Continuing on, the following five pages contained Mhzentuls notes regarding the creation of magical rings that could transform into a creature that could subsequently be controlled by the wielder. This section was incomplete and, according to his writings, Mhzentul could "see no manner nor means for imbuing the creature with any animation...".
The final section of the tome contained notes on Mhzentuls research into fire magic, containing a number of runes and glyphs written in varied, particular inks. It contained specifications on the following spells fireball, fire shield, fire trap, and delayed blast fireball.
After Mhzentuls death in 1340 DR, a number of treasure hunters sought Mhzentuls hidden mountain abode but could not recover his namesake tome. It didnt appear in Faerûn until the year 1346 DR when it was seen in the possession of the half-orc adventurer Uthmang. He was slain by the Red Wizard Alail Thang, who took the book and held it until he was defeated by the priests of Greenstone Keep.
Mhzentuls Runes was lost for two years before it was recovered by the sage Lhegrand, who proceeded to describe its contents for posterity. He only kept it for a brief time before he was abducted by the orcs of Darkhold. The most recent rumors of the tomes ownership pointed to the Cormyrian wizard of the Zhentarim named Whisper and was believed to have been interred with him within his crypt.