Nchasers Eiyromancia was a potent spellbook written by the mage Nchaser in the early-to-mid 14 century DR. Folk legends claimed that all who tried to open the book would die.The spellbook is referred to as Nchasers Eiyromancia in all materials except the 2-edition Encyclopedia Magica Volume IV (1995), where it is listed as Nchasers Elyromancia.
The tome was thin and bound in black leather with beaten copper strips around the edges. The title "Eiyromancia" was inlaid on the cover with mother of pearl. It was locked with two clasps fitted to the copper edges that could be released by turning silver knobs. However, if the bottom knob was turned before the top one, a needle concealed within the bottom knob would deliver a dose of fatal poison to whomever was attempting to open it. and a reservoir of the substance was concealed beneath the books cover, thus allowing the deadly defense mechanism to reset itself.
The Eiyromancia contained four powerful wizard spells, including two which were unique and not found anywhere else Nchasers glowing globe&mdashdevised by Nchaser himself&mdashand Nulathoes ninemen&mdashdevised by his mentor, Nulathoe. The remaining two spells were part water and statue.
During one of the only two times he stayed in one place while wandering the Realms, Nchaser wrote his Eiyromancia sometime before the , while living in Luskan as an advisor to the High Captains. He gifted the book to High Captain Taerl before disappearing, and shortly after his departure, the tome was stolen. However, during the books time in Luskan, the mage Arbane was briefly able to view the book on account of his friendship with High Captain Suljack, and he would later spread the story of the spells contained within.
For the next twenty years or so, the Eiyromancia would occasionally resurface around the Realms. It was briefly possessed by High Lady Alustriel Silverhand of Silverymoon, who gifted it to a dwarf who in turn disappeared, having never returned to his home at Citadel Adbar. The book was subsequently acquired by a group of dwarven adventurers in the forests of the North, who sold it to a merchant known as Furjur the Flippant. In the , Furjur gifted the tome to Lord Nasher Alagondar of Neverwinter in exchange for a charter. A member of Lord Nashers court subsequently triggered the books lethal defense mechanism, and his death was observed and recorded by an assassin named Nathode, whose first-hand account (and expertise in poisons) finally provided an explanation for the myth that all those who handled the book would die. After this incident, the book was left unopened and was placed in Lord Nashers library. Not long after, it was stolen during the chaos of the Five Fires Rising, and once again its location became a mystery.