The Obscene Grimoire, or Mensels Obscene Grimoire, was a mysterious magic tome filled with obscenity and perversion.
The Obscene Grimoire was a thick book bound in black leather. Its pages were filled with detailed woodblock print images of violent obscenities and gruesome perversions, leaving no taboo unmolested. The prints magically hid evil rituals and dark runes, and they only revealed themselves in glowing print to those brave enough to go through the tomes pages. The book revealed a summoning ritual to bring forth a cacodemon under the readers command and blessing the reader with the protection from evil magics. One use of the ritual led to the Obscene Grimoires disappearance. The same happened when someone tried to destroy the profane book.
Even though the true origins and the history of the time were unknown, its most renowned owner granted the book its name postmortem – Mensels Obscene Grimoire. Lord Mensel of Immersea was known as a kind, generous, and humanitarian-to-a-fault nobleman. When the beloved man died of old age in his sleep, his family discovered a secret vault underneath the mans study. It was filled with a small hoard of treasure that included a heavy black book bound in leather – the Obscene Grimoire. A century after Lord Mensels death, countless rumors and legends grew around the sinister black tome. One rumor of note came from an Arabelan seer, who claimed that Lord Mensel fashioned the Obscene Grimoire for personal use at great expense and ordered everyone involved with the books creation murdered. Despite this storys dubious authenticity, the legend nevertheless damaged Mensels name and his familys reputation. Unwilling to keep such an ill-fated book, Mensels descendants threw the Obscene Grimoire into a lit brazier only for it to disappear in a puff of fetid-reeking mist.
After leaving the Mensels family, the Obscene Grimoire appeared in many hands throughout history, seemingly at random. Always the book disappeared within a couple of years after being found.
In the , Mensels Obscene Grimoire was found in the library of the Black Raven Monastery in the mountains above the Ice Lakes in Northwest Faerûn.