Ravens Bluff Rumors is a one-page adventure for Dungeons & Dragons 1 edition printed in Polyhedron A as an introduction to the Living City organized play program and its central city setting of Ravens Bluff.
In an unnamed settlement boarding the Sea of Fallen Stars, a group of adventurers short on coins decide to try booking voyage on a ship up to the Dragon Reach and its port city of Ravens Bluff, feeling certain that the Living City is a place to find adventure and earn a quick coin. Finding themselves unable to afford passage on large ship, the adventurers try looking for a cargo vessel to sign up for work as a man-of-arms. They come to find that all large mercantile vessels are full on crew members, leaving a small cog known as The Black Scalawag as their only option.
While conversing with people around the docks and on the Black Scalawag itself the adventurers are told a wide variety of rumors surrounding recent attacks on ships. Some claim a furious storm giant is to blame, sinking all ships in retaliation for dumping garbage into the waters and not stopping until he receives reparations. Others claim a giant squid is attacking vessels, a whirlpool to another plane of existence is swallowing up ships, or that the deity Istishia is sinking all ships whose crew members dont worship him. These all turn out to be tall tales.
Some speak of increasing attacks by sahuagins wielding various armaments. While others tell of reports of seals near ships moments before they were sunken and of a lone survivor of a recent shipwreck being rescued. He reported to his sailor saviors that the ship he had been on was attacked by werewolves, then disappeared during the next full moon. In actuality the recent string of attacks on ships was being perpetrated by a pack of lesser seawolves, who had infected the sailor with their form of lycanthropy. They in turn were being regularly followed by a tribe of sahuagin, who took advantage of their attacks to scavenge shipwrecks and then attack lone ships on their own.
On the second night out at sea two men keeping watch disappear on The Black Scalawag and on the third another two go missing. On the fourth night there are no disappearances, but on the fifth four men mending the ships sails are reported as seemingly jumping overboard. By the sixth day there are only seven people left on the ship, plus the adventurers. The Black Scalawags captain is in a panicked state, uncertain what course of action to take, for there are no signs of other ships in the vicinity and they are too far out at sea to try turning around. Looking around for any clue as to what was causing the disappearances, the adventurers find only a few spots of blood and scraps of fur. When the sun sets that day its the group of adventurers who are chosen to take watch and they come face to face with the lesser seawolves.
If any of the adventurers have some means of traversing the watery depths, they might come to find the lair of the seawolves and the treasure therein. Within their horde a trove of 22,000 copper pieces, 16,000 silver pieces, and 700 gold pieces are found. As well as fourteen gemstones, each worth a hundred gold pieces, and a +2 short sword. When they bring it all aboard The Black Scalawag their captain insists upon them sharing the loot, as he wishes to compensate the families of the eight crewmen that were lost to the seawolves.