"Possessions" is a short story by James P. Davis published in the 2005 anthology Realms of the Dragons II.
Count Kelmar Dargren is accompanied by assassins from the School of Stealth as they search for a cold-blooded murderer, "Grim", in the streets of Zazesspur. Unknown to everyone, he bears a magical amulet that grants him the ability to feel what Grim feels. Just as he and his four assassins split up, he stays back, alone, and misses the moment when Grim tears his four comrades apart due to a recently developed, recurrent headache.
The next day at the Whispering Maiden inn, he suffers from nausea and mood swings during breakfast, which consists ultimately of spiced ale only. He then heads to the Carpet District, where he visits his aunt she employs some spell on the amulet, and suffers a painful backlash. He reveals the killer is a fang dragon named Xexillidalgrymm and that the amulet shows him what Grim feels and knows. She gives him five charms to arm his men, so that they may harm Grim. Unknown to him, Grim, too, feels and knows through Kelmar.
Grim is then ambushed by four men wielding the charms that Kelmars aunt gave them. The dragon is disappointed that Kelmar himself hasnt shown, but still finds himself injured, recalling the necromancer that attempted to bind his soul to the amulet that Kelmar now carries. A man of the guard arrives Grim carries the man off to a corner to finish draining his power in order to restore himself. Then, as more guards arrive, they notice a guard, Thaedras, who apparently has been injured recently. Thaedras swears he doesnt remember where he got that injury, and notices hes wearing an amulet he wasnt before.
Characters
Kelmar Dargren • Borial • Faerdral • Begg • Thaedras • Xexillidaulgrymm
Lukan Dargren
Locations
Carpet District • Ivory Street • Merchant District • Whispering Maiden • Zazesspur
Monsters
fang dragon
Organizations
Council of Lords • School of Stealth
Spells
detect magic
Deities
Tymora 
Events
Tethyrian Civil War
Plants
jasmine • sandalwood
Ethnicities
half-elf
Items
ale • amulet • bacon • cloak • dagger • egg • saber • ruby