"How Burlmarr Saved the Unseen Protector" is a short story by Kameron J. Franklin published in the 2005 anthology Realms of the Dragons II.
A young gnome, Burlmarr dreams of being a dragon and fighting caravan raiders. He wakes up with a pounding headache, then goes to apprentice with a gem-cutter. While there, he thinks that his fellow apprentice is talking about all sorts of things with him being quickly corrected, he starts to feel a headache incoming. Through this, a malevolent wizard hears that caravaneers are commenting about the Unseen Protector, an ancient gold dragon, attacking some raiders the night before. Having confirmed this, he contacts the Archmage of the Arcane Brotherhood, and sets a plan in motion by which several of his men copy the likenesses of gnomes they have just killed.
Burlmarr is excused from work for the day, and begins to head home, when suddenly he begins to see as though from the air instead of his own eyes. Looking at himself, he realizes hes seeing from someone elses eyes the owner of those eyes contacts him mentally, and asks him to join him outside town. It turns out to be a dragon, who suspects that the young gnomes headaches, dreams, and overheard voices are signs of him coming into his own power as a wilder. The dragon introduces himself as Palarandusk.
The impersonators put their plan in motion, kidnapping the elder in order to lure Palarandusk into an antimagic stasis field. They succeed, and the Archmage Arcane reveals himself. Getting in the way of their plan, however, Burlmarr goes to sleep, and once more his senses turn to Palarandusks, revealing the treachery which has captured him. Burlmarr leaves his home and heads towards Palarandusk. Once there, Burlmarr manages to use his psychic powers to whelm one of the guards just long enough to disturb one of the rods that keep the dragon trapped, releasing him.
Palarandusk manages to scare away the Archmage and his minions, but Burlmarr is struck down. The dragon laments he has no way to save the young gnomes life.
Characters
Ambrythynn • Arklem Greeth • Brimmloch • Burlmarr • Daikon • Felrenden • Froga Gromann • Goodwife Thintagast • Kaylindrra • Master Thintagast • Merem • Palarandusk
Ardabad • Braeder • Drom (Ieirithymbul) • Hallbrondell • Lissa Boavartarr • Maree Blimthalloon • Mileirigath • Pheldaer
Location
Ieirithymbul • Leilon • Sword Mountains
Netheril • Neverwinter • Sea Tower
Ethnicities
gnome • human
dwarf (clan Forgebar)
Creatures
gold dragon • hill giant • orc
goat
Spells
alter self • chain lightning
Psionic Powers
brain lock • mindlink
Organizations and Positions
Arcane Brotherhood
Items
crossbow • dagger • hide armor • pendant • quartz • staff
Food and drink
cabbages • roast boar • nutty-flavored bread
Classes
wilder