Realms of the Arcane, edited by Brian M. Thomsen, is the fifth anthology of stories from the Forgotten Realms. 
By Wes Nicholson
By David Cook
A series of letters between the Perfect and Absolute Magister Pavish and his nemesis Grand Conjurer Torreb. Magister Pavish is searching for a magical artifact called the Greenwinter staff. He wishes to use this to rid himself of the people that are in his way, but he is not as clever as he thinks and Grand conjurer Torreb catches up to him before he is able to finish his plot.
By Elaine Cunningham
CreaturesDrow • Sahuagin • Wemic
By Tom Dupree
Wiglaf Evertongue, son of a family of bakers and a mage-in-training, takes a much needed vacation to his home city of Calimport to visit family while under guard by an amazonian warrior he fancies. However, this visit is anything but quiet, as a chance discovery of an ancient jar of magical sourdough starter that has the potential to make infinite bread leads to a newfound popularity. But messing with ancient magical items rarely leads to anything but disaster.
CharactersAngrod Swordthumper• Ariel Evertongue • Fenzig • Garadel • Hassan Harsplittar • Piewacket • Sam Brownstone • Sasha • Thorin Evertongue • Wiglaf Evertongue
CreaturesCat • Horse
LocationsCalimport • Calimshan • Empires of the Sands • Ovens of Evertongue • Schamedar • Sheets to the Wind • Shining Sea
ItemsAle • Axe • Bread (Sourdough) • Broadsword • Calishite lamp • Flour • Honey • Ration • Saddle • Salt • Spellbook • Spiced wine • Spices
SpellsFireball • Grease
MiscMage • Pasha • Sailors • Thorass language • Warrior
Cow • Djinn • Efreet • Luiren • Shadowdale • Sword Coast • Waterdeep • Western Heartlands
By Wes Nicholson
By J. Robert King
Josiah is a mage serving in the aerial cavalry of Tith Tilendrothael, a Netherese sky city. He and his unit are attacking Lhaoda, a rival sky city that is approaching Tith hidden in a thunderstorm. During their attack, Lhaoda falls from the sky. Josiah saves an old woman from Lhaoda who claims that the phaerimm trapped their city in the thunderstorm and caused it to fall. When the remains of the cavalry reach Tith, they find that it has also fallen, and the survivors must now make their living on land.
By Mark Anthony
By Monte Cook
By Ed Greenwood
Date The month of Kythorn in 902 DR
In the year 902 DR the Lord of Dusklake, in what is today Northern Amn, is slain by a dragon. When the ruler of the neighboring Grand Thentor, Rammast, declares war on the small realm of Dusklake, his young sister Aerindel Summertyn in desperation turns to Mystra for help. She is gifted the power of a magical item, the Whispering Crown, to fend off the attack. What she does not know is that with this power comes a test by the goddess herself.
By Wes Nicholson
By Philip Athans
Date 
Alashar is one of many assassins sent against the archwizard Shadow, only she is slightly more successful than most, managing to kill one of the Shadows simulacra before she is magically paralyzed and sent to his demiplane. But before Shadow utters the final incantation that would send her there, she manages to break out of his spell long enough to drag him along with her. Once there, they work together to get back to the Material Plane, and Shadow begins to respect the young assassin, especially once it is revealed that she is being used by his rival archwizard Grenway, against whom they move together.
By Brian Thomsen
By Jeff Grubb
Characters Ampi • Tertius Wands
Creatures Djinn
Locations Nauseous Otyugh • Scornubel
Items Death cheese • Dragons Breath Beer • Tripartite Orb of Hangrist
By Wes Nicholson