"The Hunting Game" is a short story by Erik Scott de Bie published in the 2005 anthology Realms of the Dragons II.
A bard, Alin Cateln, is heading for Hills Edge as part of a caravan that gets attacked by a dragon. He wakes up days later, with no memory of the attack he soon discovers that he was saved by the adventurers who were part of the caravan, the Moor Runners a priest named Delkin Snowdawn, a barbarian named Thard, and a sorceress named Inri. He joins up with those adventurers, after learning that their own bard, Tannin, perished in the dragon attack. However, as discussion of the dragon picks up, a woman, Ryla Dragonclaw, enters the tavern, looking for adventurers to help her slay the dragon Tharaskalagram, which she claims has attacked the caravan. Alin volunteers the party.
In the morning, Ryla rides with him, having no horse of her own. Along the way to the dragons lair, whose location she claims to know, the party attempts to go around an orcish encampment Ryla rejects the idea, going off on her own to slay the orcs. After the battle, Alin questions why he has heard of Rylas exploits in songs from his fathers and grandfathers time Ryla tells him she will keep some secrets. She insults Thards cooking next and leaves on her own Alin follows her. He claims to be composing a ballad about her, and they spend the night together.
The next day they are attacked by a green dragon it knocks all of them out, but Ryla slays it they bury Delkin, slain by its breath. They finally discover the lair of Tharaskalagram. Preparing to strike in its sleep, Thard suddenly, close by, recognizes it as a different dragon just then, it wakes up and incinerates Thard with its breath before Inri can escape, Ryla turns on them and decapitates her. Alin alone is left alive, and he witnesses as Ryla sheds her human guise, revealing herself to be another red dragon named Rylatarralahtyma. She suggests giving Alin a five-year headstart so that he can finish the ballad about her before finishing him off.
Characters
Alin Cateln • Delkin Snowdawn • Inri • Rylatarralahtyma • Tannin • Tharaskalagram • Thard
Alusair Obarskyr • Agatan
Deities
Lathander • Tempus • Tymora
Locations
Heartlands • Triel • Forest of Wyrms • Singing Wind Inn
Baldurs Gate • Brightwater • Cormyr • Evermoors • Great Wheel • Hills Edge • Luskan • Nine Hells • Selûne (moon) • Thay
Ethnicities
elf • human • Sky Pony tribe
Organizations
Moor Runners
Magic
fireball • invisibility • light • Rarys telepathic bond • teleport
dancing lights • prestidigitation
Languagse
Elven language
Flora
redwood
Classes
bard
Animals
horse
boar • fox • jackrabbit • rat • raven • spider
Creatures
dragon (green dragon • red dragon) • orc
troll
Food and Drinks
ale • bread • fruit • hardtack
Materials
gold • leather • silk • silver • steel
Armor
plate armor • scale mail • gauntlet
Clothing
belt • cloak • cape • ring • skirt • tabard • tunic • undershirt
Items
greataxe • harp • katana • ladle • mug • pan • pipe • pot • rapìer • saddlebags • silver piece • spoon • tankard