"Traitors" is a short story by Erik Scott de Bie first published in the 2006 anthology Realms of the Elves.
“The Greater Treasure” takes place in the month of Eleasias in 1362 DR, the Year of the Helm, in the city of Elversult on the Dragon Coast. The sun elf Yldar Nathalan and his wizardess sister, Cythara, both exiled from House Nathalan, or the House of the Crescent Bow, in Evermeet, arrive in Elversult just as the Scarred Eagle adventuring band defeats the Cowled Skull dynasty of Elversult, and the lady mage Yanseldara is crowned in the Skulls place all the while the citizens of Elversult go about their daily business. Yldar is searching for an ancient magical elven relic known as Ynloeths Bracer, which was once worn by Coronal Ynloeth of Shantel Othreier, a hero of the Crown Wars.
While in the Splitskull inn in Elversult, Yldar and Cythara meet a beautiful and humorous moon elf thief who goes by the name Fox-at-Twilight. She is later revealed to be a shadowdancer (she can walk through shadows) and a former lover of Erevan Ilesere, the Fey Jester, the elf god of mischief and rogues. Twilight agrees to help them obtain the bracer, and she takes them to the House of Coins, a temple of Waukeen, Lady of Merchants and goddess of commerce. The basement of the temple is used by the Deep Coven, a cabal that worships the demon prince Grazzt, who has been holding Waukeen captive since the Godswar. While in the temple of Grazzt, Cythara, seeking more power and tired of following in her younger brothers footsteps, betrays Yldar and Twilight. Twilight takes the bracer, and she and Yldar flee, leaving Cythara behind with the demon worshipers. Cythara defeats the lamia Leisanna, leader of the Deep Coven and Chosen of Grazzt, and becomes the new leader and Chosen.
Yldar and Twilight fall in love. Yldar asks Twilight to help him save his sister, but Twilight says he cannot ask that of her. When Yldar awakens the next day, after the last night he and Twilight lay together, Twilight is gone. She leaves with him the Bracer of Ynloeth and a note of parchment reading, “Farewell, and remember.”