Rising Tide is the first book in The Threat from the Sea trilogy by Mel Odom. 
Laaqueel, a malenti, discovers the resting place of Iakhovas, a mysterious being known as One-Who-Swims-With-Sekolah. He makes her into his servant. 
A human sailor named Jherek sails on the ship Finaren’s Butterfly, captained by Virne Finaren. A mysterious voice occasionally speaks in Jherek’s mind. Jherek rejects the advances of a spoiled woman named Yeill. He then saves her during a sahuagin attack but is exposed as a former pirate of the crew led by Falkane, a notorious pirate. 
Laaqueel and Iakhovas prepare to attack Waterdeep. 
Captain Finaren claims that Jherek was pressed into service on Falkane’s ship, although the truth is he is Falkane’s son. He is forced to get rid of Jherek as a crew member, although he gives him a generous payment. 
The attack on Waterdeep progresses, but Iakhovas reveals it is merely a distraction for him to retrieve something. 
Jherek is robbed in an alley and nearly killed. 
During the Waterdeep battle, a mage sees Iakhovas with a truesight spell, giving Laaqueel a hint at his true form. 
Jherek is helped by his two mentors, a ghost named Malorrie and a mage named Madame Itaar. 
Pacys, an old bard gifted a song by Oghma when a merfolk village was displaced into Waterdeep by Iakhovas, hears of the attack and rushes along with the priests of the Font of Knowledge to defend the city.  Iakhovas retrieves a talisman from Jannaxil Serpentil. Pacys hears more of the song during the attack, and Piergeiron Paladinson rallies the defenders to turn the tide of battle. 
Jherek is sent out of the city on the ship Breezerunner by Madame Itaar to Baldurs Gate, where she has forseen he will encounter some of his destiny. 
With help from Maskar Wands, the Waterdeep invasion is defeated. 
Jherek befriends Sabyna, the ship’s mage. They rescue a young boy from a shipwreck. The connection between Jherek and Sabyna becomes romantic, but Jherek learns that his father killed Sabyna’s brother. 
Iakhovas makes a show of strength to Huaanton, king of the sahuagin, with a kraken, and claims Sekolah wants an attack on Baldur’s Gate, but Huaanton declines to do so without a sign, so Iakhovas declares to Laaqueel his intent to become king. 
After learning of the attack on Waterdeep while in Athkatla, Jherek and Sabyna split up to search for the captain, but Jherek runs into a sailor named Aysel instead, who picks a fight. Jherek wins the fight but is discovered by the captain. 
Narros, a merman shaman, tells Pacys about the myth and prophecy of Iakhovas, the circlet that was given to their village by Eadro but stolen by Iakhovas, that all undersea races are tied to it and Pacys is prophesied to record their songs as the Taleweaver. He tells him to go to Baldur’s Gate, fated to meet a young hero, who, unknown to them, is Jherek. Back in Athkatla, Jherek is kicked off the crew for fighting. 
Iakhovas seizes the role of Black Alaric to take control of the Nelanther pirates, including Falkane, in preparation to attack Baldur’s Gate. Jherek signs on with a caravan to Baldur’s Gate.