The Saga of the Dragon Queller, or Sal Hotun Wyrmrever in its original language, was an ancient giant ballad about the hero Hjurnur Wyrmrever.
This epic poem was the second in a series of eleven sagas about Hjurnur Wyrmrever and his descendants. It was composed by Hrotun, the first skald, and told the tale of his nephew, the hero Hjurnur, during the great war between the giants and the dragons.
Like all classically written giant sagas, the poems first stanza introduced the main character, provided a genealogy, and summarized the entire tale to follow.
Amongst other feats, the story told how Hjurnur snapped a dragons backbone over his knee, ended up allowing the Queen of Dragons to eat his child after losing a riddle contest, and killed a dragon king. At the end of the tale, Hjurnur ended up drowning in the dragon kings blood.There is an obvious error in the text of Giantcraft where this poem is described. After directly explaining that the poem is about Hjurnur and written by Hrotun, in some places, the author accidentally substitutes Hrotun for Hjurnur in the description of the lines. The poem itself is clear that it is Hjurnur, and not Hrotun, who performs the feats described. Moreover, Hrotun could not have written the poem if he is said to have died at the end of the story.
The following is a translation by Rundigast of Waterdeep of the first stanza of the poem
I pour mead to the All-Father for
Hjurnur, son of Hjurgen,
leveler of Ranauroch,
son of Ottar,
Jarl of the northern wind-teeth,
son of grand Annam,
All Seeing, All Knowing, All Quelling,
All Father &mdash
Fireheart,
Mighty reaver of the wyrms core,
He who howled at the sun,
He of the quenched heart,
He who drowned in the river of swords,&hellip
Over the centuries, the other ten sagas that this poem was part of a series for were lost to time, leaving it as the oldest surviving song about Hjurnur in the 14 century DR.
This saga was sung in mead halls within giant steadings all over Faerûn, though it was primarily popular among frost giants.