Sea of Fallen Stars is a 2-edition Advanced Dungeons & Dragons accessory for the Forgotten Realms.
Sea of Fallen Stars explores the world above and below the waves in the Inner Sea.
It provides an in-depth descriptions of the Sea of Fallen Stars, including its major and minor bodies of water, islands, coastal regions, and underwater terrain. The book details natural phenomena, climatic conditions, and notable geographic features. It contains descriptions of the various races and cultures that inhabit the Sea of Fallen Stars and its surrounding regions. This includes information on major cities, trade routes, and political factions, as well as the unique customs and traditions of the sea’s denizens.
Included is a detailed history of the Sea of Fallen Stars, covering significant events, myths, and legends associated with the region. This section includes information on the ancient civilizations that once thrived around the sea and the current political landscape.
Sea of Fallen Stars provides detailed accounts of the diverse aquatic and terrestrial creatures that populate the Sea of Fallen Stars. This section provides statistics, behavior patterns, and encounter suggestions.
Also included are adventure hooks, plot ideas, and campaign suggestions tailored to the Sea of Fallen Stars. These provide Dungeon Masters with ready-to-use scenarios and inspiration for creating their own quests.
* Part I Atop the Waves
* Part II Life in the Inner Sea
* Part III Diving Into Seros
* Part IV Appendices
 () ()
 ()
 ()
 () () ()
 ()
 ()
 () () ()
 ()
Adventuring Companies 
Criminal Organizations  • 
Families  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  • 
Guilds 
Military Organizations  •  • 
Monstrous Organizations 
Political Organizations  •  •  • 
Religious Organizations  •  •  •  •  • 
Tribes
Koalinth
 •  •  • 
Locathah
Spellcasting Organizations  • 
Undead Organizations  • 
 •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  • 
Armor & Clothing  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  • 
Art & Literature  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  • 
Calendars  •  •  •  • 
Classes  •  •  • 
Currencies  • 
Fields of Study  •  • 
Gemstones 
Items  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  • 
Languages  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  • 
Materials  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  • 
Plants  •  •  • 
Professions 
Substances 
Terminology  •  •  • 
Titles  •  •  •  •  •  • 
Vessels  •  •  •  •  •  • 
Weapons  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  • 
Named
 •  • 
Sea of Fallen Stars Back Cover.jpg|Back Cover
Seaoffallenstarscover early preview.png|An early preview image of the Sea of Fallen Stars, from Dragon #260, 261, and 262 that displays a different cover then the end product. Depicting what seems to be a shalarin on a ship.
* Design and Development Steven E. Schend
* Original Designs (Ilbratha, Red Book of War) Ed Greenwood
* Original Designs (Pirate Isles, misc. Inner Sea) Ed Greenwood, Jeff Grubb, Steve Perrin, Curtis Scott
* Undersea AD&D® Rules Designs Bruce Cordell, Keith Strohm, and Skip Williams
* Editing Dale A. Donovan and Roger E. Moore
* Creative Direction David Wise and Kij Johnson
* Art Director Paul Hanchette
* Cover Art Jeff Easley
* Interior Art Ned Dameron
* Cartography Dennis Kauth, Rob Lazzaretti
* Graphic Design and Production Dee Barnett
* Typography Eric Haddock