Streams of Silver is the second book in the Icewind Dale trilogy by R.A. Salvatore. It was later reissued as book five of the Legend of Drizzt series.
In the first part of the book, the four companions Drizzt DoUrden, Bruenor Battlehammer, Wulfgar and Regis, set out on their quest for Mithral Hall. From Icewind Dale they first reach the city of Luskan. There Drizzt and Bruenor have to deal with Whisper and her gang to obtain a map of that area of the Realms, while Regis and Wulfgar get involved in a tavern brawl. The party then crosses the Crags where they have to face a band of orcs and the Uthgardt of the Sky Pony tribe, which unleashes a Spiritual Beast against them.
Artemis Entreri, who is hunting for Regis, captures and interrogates Catti-brie. He learns of their quest from her and goes on the partys trail bringing her along.  Also Dendybar the Mottled, a wizard of the Host Tower of the Arcane who is interested in the companions, believes Drizzt is in possession of Crenshinibon. The assassin and the wizard end up joining forces.
In the second part of the book the four companions visit Longsaddle and the Harpells, a group of eccentric wizards, who suggest they head for Silverymoon. On their way though they have to cross the deadly Evermoors.
In the meantime. Entreri and Catti-brie, together with Jierdan, Sydney, and Bok, respectively a soldier, the apprentice of Dendybar and the wizards flesh golem, fly magically to Silverymoon, having learned of the companions destination from Harkle Harpell.
Once outside Silverymoon, Drizzt and friends arent allowed to enter the city, but Lady Alustriel meets the drow and gives him some equipment and good advice, telling him to seek information about Mithral Hall at the Heralds Holdfast.
The four friends are spotted by Bok the golem, which was standing outside the city, and Entreris party immediately set on their trail, with Catti-brie trying to turn Jierdan against the rest of the group.
In the third part of the book, Bruenor, thanks to information found in the Heralds Holdfast and to a potion from Alustriel, lives again his past and he is able to remember the location of Mithral Hall.
In the meantime, Catti-brie turns Jierdan against the rest of the party and she is able to escape in the commotion of the resulting fight and to join her friends.
The companions enter Mithral Hall and find it overrun by enemies. Their next goal is leaving the place safely. There they are finally reached by Entreris party. The fight leads to Entreri and Drizzt being separated from the rest of their parties and being forced to work together to find their way out.
Bruenor and friends defeat their opponents but they are soon faced by the Shadow dragon Shimmergloom. The companions rejoin Drizzt and manage to survive the encounter and defeat the dragon. In the process Bruenor falls in a gorge and apparently falls to his death. Entreri captures Regis and Guenhwyvars statuette and escapes from the companions.
The book ends with Drizzt and Wulfgar ready to hunt for Entreri and Catti-brie, with the help of the dwarves and the Harpells, plans to conquer Mithral Hall in an attempt to avenge Bruenor.
Characters
Artemis Entreri • Bruenor Battlehammer • Catti-brie • Drizzt DoUrden • Jierdan • Regis • Sydney • Wulfgar • Alustriel Silverhand • Bok • Cassius • Chardin Harpell • DelRoy Harpell • Dendybar the Mottled • Bidderdoo Harpell • Fender Mallot • Gavin • Grollo • Guenhwyvar • Harkle Harpell • Mizzen • Morkai the Red • Mucknuggle • Old Night • Regweld Harpell • Shimmergloom • Torlin • Valric High Eye • Whisper
Akar Kessel • Anariel • Bangor • Beornegar • Bruenor • Dove Falconhand • Elmor • Garumn • Harbromm • Helm • Jerek Wolf-slayer • Matherly Harpell • Pook • Storm Silverhand
Items
Aegis-fang • Icingdeath • Entreris dagger • Ruby pendant • Taulmaril
Crenshinibon
Locations
Bryn Shander • Dessarin Valley • Garumns Gorge • Half-Moon Street • Hall of Dumathoin • Halls of Gathering • Host Tower of the Arcane • Icewind Dale • Inn of the Wayward Sages • Ivy Mansion • Keepers Dale • Longsaddle • Luskan • Mithral Hall • Moonbridge • Rat Alley • River Dessarin • River Mirar • River Rauvin • River Surbrin • Ruins of Settlestone • Silverymoon • Ten-Towns • The Crags • The Cutlass • The Evermoors • The Fuzzy Quarterstaff
Streams of silver cover.jpg|Original cover.
FileStreams Of Silver Original Cover (Textless).jpg|Original cover (textless).
FileStreams Of Silver Original Cover (Bruenor Close Up).jpg|Original cover (Bruenor close up).
Streams of Silver spanish.jpg|Spanish edition cover.
Streams of Silver map.jpg|The map depicting the journey of the Companions of the Hall in the Streams of Silver.
Anna-podedworna-streams-of-silver.jpg|Art from the 2023 re-release.
*The Legend of Drizzt Streams of Silver Graphic Novel
deDie silbernen Ströme
CategoryNovels
CategoryBooks
CategoryWorks by R.A. Salvatore
CategoryPublished in 1989
CategoryPublished in 2005
CategoryDrizzt novels
89tbeto2ums1mznr53gnhblpsh1g1cs