, 1376 DR
The Shield of Weeping Ghosts is the third book in The Citadels series. It was written by James P. Davis and first released on 6th May 2008.
Seven children, fleeing their captors, make their way to Shandaular. They are welcomed inside, only for the demons inhabiting their innocent bodies to trigger the trap set by Narfell. The city falls.
Over 2,300 years later, in early Nightal of the , a felucca carrying a fang of Rashemaar berserkers of the Ice Wolf lodge, led by Duras an Ethran named Thaena and an exiled Vremyonni named Bastun, is on their way to the ruins of Shandaular to see the senior wychlaran there and to perform the traditional rite officially banishing Bastun from the lands of Rashemen.
They arrive to find that the citys wards, meant to keep the paths safe from the many ghosts that inhabit the ruins, have had their magic drained, and the ruins have been taken by a group of Creel warriors. Anilya, a Durthan who has been watching the city for her organization, is captured by the fang. Anilya proposes a temporary alliance to evict the Nars from Rashemen. Reluctantly agreeing, the fang and the Durthans hired mercenaries march on the Shield where the citys wychlaran outpost is.
They arrive, finding the buildings wards keeping the citys lesser spirits at bay, but all the hathran and their berserker guards are dead. Bastuns master had taught him many secrets of Shandaular, including that of the Breath, a sword, and the Flame, a ring, both enchanted by King Arkaius of Shaundalar, that were key to activating the Word, a gate between the Shield and the plane of Stygia. Those millennia ago, when Narfell had attacked the city, King Arkaius activated the Word in an attempt to pit the devils of Stygia against the demons of Narfell and in so doing, doomed his own city and its people to death and an eternity of torment.
Anilya attempts to take the power of these three artifacts and use it to protect Rashemen in her own amoral way, while Bastun attempts to secure them so that they dont fall into the wrong hands. Meanwhile, without the witchs wards, the undead of the city replay its final day over again until the animated corpse of Serevan Crell can get his hands on the artifacts and use them to rebuild his fathers empire.
Anilya • Athumrani • Bastun • Duras • Keffrass • Ohriman • Serevan Crell • Syrolf • Thaena • Ulsera
Arkaius • Levistus • Thargaun Crell
Bleakborn • Erinyes • Nar • Nighthaunt • Rashemaar • Rusalka • tiefling • varrangoin • wheep • zombie
Food & Drink
Jhuild • Threskian thrallwine
Buildings
Hall of the Portal • the Shield
Dun-Tharos
Geographic Features
Ashenwood • Firward Mountains • Lake Ashane • Running Rocks
Erech Forest • Urlingwood
Regions
Ashanath • Rashemen
Ilythiir • Great Dale • Narfell • Raumathar
Settlements
Shandaular
Miscellaneous
portal • Weave
Spells
Evards black tentacles • Fire spiders • Transmute rock to mud
Art & Literature
Firedawn Cycle
Bear lodge • Creel • Durthans • Ice Wolf lodge • Runescarred berserkers • Swords of the Cold Road • Vremyonni • Wychlaran