century DR
| publisher   = 
| released    = 
| discovered  = 
| location    = Heralds Holdfast
| origin      = 
| language    = 
| volumes     = 7
| pages       = 
| edition     = 
| value       = 
| basicrefs   = 
| binding     = 
| cover       = 
| material    = 
| descrefs    = 
The Phoenix Prophecies was a collection of prophecies from the great Narysr of Calimshan, composed by the Herald Swordswreath.
The Phoenix Prophecies was a seven-volume collection of over 8,000 prophecies. The prophecies made predictions about matters both important and unimportant. Swordswreath organized the Phoenix Prophecies into various groups, the most notable being the Caleph Auguries and the Eclipse Prophecies.
There were 22 prophecies in all that Swordwreath composed into this group, considered some of the most cryptic prophecies ever received. These auguries roughly foretold the history of Calimshan, including its nine Ages. In fact, the titles of Calimshans ages were derived from the auguries themselves.
Of the 22 Auguries, fourteen were believed to have already been fulfilled by 1370 DR. The remaining eight prophecies were Auguries 12, 14, 16 through 19, 21, and 22. The sage Elminster Aumar had many theories about the meanings of the remaining auguries.
He was told that the prophecy was attributed to the phrophet Alim yn Atsel al Dian. The man was important in Calimshan and wore a creature from the Burning Lands, known as a "viziers turban". However, after a meeting with the man, Elminster concluded that this was not the truth.
Though Elminster had known six women with eyes like this, Iraclea the Ice Queen, Synmara Eldenbow of Myth Drannor, Darthleene of Berdusk, Dlatha Fae nar of the Spirestars, Simbul of Aglarond, and Saranla Bhevik of Lheshayl, he did not think any fit the prophecy, rather attributing it to a gods avatar.
This prophecy was too vague to be solved by Elminster.
The Penumbrannar was the name of many groups of Calishite raiders. Elminster thought that a faction called the Penumbrannar might form in the future to rightfully claim the prophecy. 
Elminster came to the conclusion that this could describe many different floods during the centuries, and grew tired of waiting at the sea.
Elminster did not know what this prophecy meant, though he praised its enigmatic writing.
This prophecy seemed easily solved by the assumption that it spoke of Mystra, Selûne, and Talona, but, as Elminster cautioned, whichever answers came easiest to the oracles were, most often, the wrong ones.
Elminster did not have a real solution for this prophecy. He simply stated that the prophecy brought hope to many temples and slaves.
Nearly a third of the Narysrs prophecies involved metaphors about eclipses, and more than 300 of these were collectively called the Eclipse Prophecies. Almost all of them had to do with battles and wars. These prophecies successfully predicted the Genie Wars, the Twelve Peak Wars, the Eye Tyrant Wars, the Time of Troubles, and the Tuigan Horde. About fifteen of the prophecies remained unfulfilled by 1370 DR.
The Phoenix Prophecies was the first non-Calishite recording of the Narysrs predictions. It was composed in the 10 century DR by the then-current Herald Swordswreath. She collected the prophecies from among several now-lost sources and the memories of an Abbalayar prophet named Kadh yn Ororm al Mjol.
The original copy of The Phoenix Prophecies still existed in Heralds Holdfast as late as 1370 DR. Copies also could be found in Candlekeep, Calimport, Silverymoon, and Waterdeep.
CategoryBooks (in-universe)
CategoryItems from Calimport
CategoryItems from Candlekeep
CategoryItems from Silverymoon
CategoryItems from Waterdeep
CategoryItems from Heralds Holdfast
CategoryItems from the Moonwood
CategoryItems from Luruar
CategoryItems from Northwest Faerûn
CategoryItems from Faerûn
CategoryItems from Toril
CategoryItems
CategoryProphecies
k8k7v596oixkcm4smokw06b4e0mx6yb