The Orc King is the first novel of the Transitions series by R.A. Salvatore.
A century after the end of the bloody war between the
dwarves of Mithral Hall and the orc hordes of the orc king Obould Many-Arrows, the
drow ranger Drizzt DoUrden
still wielded his magical scimitars, Twinkle and Icingdeath, as well as Taulmaril,
the enchanted bow once possessed by his beloved wife, the human woman Catti-brie. Drizzt defeated a small group of bandits who were members
of the vigilante organization called Casin
Cu Calas, which traveled through the Kingdom of Many-Arrows and slew orcs
in their sleep. Drizzt was assisted in the fight by Hralien, the leader of the
elves of the Glimmerwood (formerly the Moonwood), and a few of his warriors. Drizzt
was angered when one of the captives mentioned the so-called past weakness of
Bruenor Battlehammer, the renowned former king of Mithral Hall, by making peace
with the orcs. Reflecting on the hundred years of chaos that had gripped much
of the world outside of the Silver Marches, Drizzt and Hralien discussed the
momentous decisions made by Bruenor and Obould a century earlier and the impact
that they had on the region. Also at that time, Obould VI, the sixth ruler of the
Kingdom of Many-Arrows, reflected on the century of slow progress in the orc
relations with the other races of the Silver Marches after he visited the home
of an orc maiden who was set to marry a human from the Glimmerwood.
A century before these events, in 1372
DR, Drizzt and his traveling companion, the elf warrior Innovindil of the
Moonwood, returned to Mithral Hall after a journey to the grave of the young elf
Ellifain Tuuserail. By that
time, Obould and his forces had completely blocked off
the valley of Keeper’s Dale to prevent any
counterattack from the dwarves of Mithral
Hall and had begun building the first settlements of his new kingdom. A few of the orc priests
who had pledged allegiance to Obould had become dissatisfied with the seeming
end of the campaign against the Silver Marches and started conspiring against the
king. In the hope of continuing the war, the shamans convinced Clan Karuck, a tribe
of ogrillons (offspring of ogres and orcs) led by the chieftain Grguch, to
leave their home in the Underdark and come to the surface of Toril.
Grguch and
his followers soon began a campaign against the elves of the Moonwood, who had been highly
successful at attacking the orc settlements along their borders. During a
failed raid on an orc camp, the elves were surprised by the ferocity of Clan Karuck’s
counterattack, but Tosun Armgo, a renegade drow warrior and one of the original instigators of the orcs’
war against Mithral Hall, had been living alone in the area and led them to safety, a
very uncharacteristic action for a dark elf. A short time later, Innovindil and a band of her brethren were assailed by Clan
Karuck and their orc allies in the Moonwood itself, and the elves were once
again routed. Clan Karuck’s cunning attack proved much more effective than their
previous one, with Innovindil and her pegasus Sunset as well as twelve other
elves being slain. Hralien suspected that Tosun had planned the ambush because
it was too well organized to have been thought of by orcs. However, the actual
orchestrator was the gnome wizard Jack, who had been trained by illithids and
other powerful creatures and had been secretly controlling Clan Karuck’s
different shamans for centuries.
Meanwhile, in Mithral Hall, Bruenor was convinced that a
sinkhole that the halfling Regis had fallen into in the Fell Pass months earlier was the
way to the ancient dwarven homeland of Gauntlgrym, and he organized a small
party to investigate. The skilled group consisted of Bruenor, Drizzt, Regis, the dwarf
cleric Cordio
Muffinhead,
and the dwarf warriors Thibbledorf
Pwent
and Torgar
Hammerstriker.
After the friends left Mithral Hall and journeyed
north through lands that were still gripped by winter, they entered the sinkhole only to find a
cavern that was occupied by giant ethereal marauders. Once they killed the creatures,
the group traveled deeper into the cavern and discovered a large underground
city. However, upon exploring the city, which
consisted of buildings that looked like ones found above ground and not under it,
Drizzt and the others doubted that it was actually Gauntlgrym. The companions were
then attacked by a nightwing and a nightwalker, two denizens of the Plane of
Shadow, but together they managed to slay the fearsome entities. Following the
fight, they entered a massive building and found extraordinary statues and tapestries of orcs and dwarves dwelling together
in peace. A frustrated Bruenor and his comrades gathered as many scrolls as possible and brought
them to Mithral Hall to Nanfoodle, a gnome alchemist and illusionist. 
While Bruenor and the others had
attempted to discover Gauntlgrym, Catti-brie
and the barbarian warrior Wulfgar had departed from Mithral Hall in the early
spring to search for the latter’s missing adopted daughter, Colson. Although
Catti-brie had a seriously injured leg, she and Wulfgar traveled on foot to the
city of Silverymoon, where she developed a closer relationship
with its ruler, the wizard Alustriel
Silverhand. Wulfgar and Catti-brie learned that Colson had probably been taken
to the town of Nesmé, which had been destroyed by the trolls of the Evermoors
a couple years earlier. When they reached Nesmé, the
two companions discovered that the town was completely rebuilt and was much more
fortified than it had been before the war against the trolls. Since
Galen
Firth, the captain of the Riders of Nesmé,
was in command of the town, Wulfgar met with him in order to demand that Colson
be given over to him. Despite having absolutely no liking for Wulfgar, Firth
decided that it would be politically wise for him to acquiesce. With Colson
retrieved, Wulfgar told Catti-brie that he had decided to take the young girl
back to her birthmother and that he was going to return home to Icewind
Dale to rejoin the Tribe of the Elk. Catti-brie was the only
one of their group of friends who had not yet realized Wulfgar’s plans, and though
she was saddened by them, she did not stop him from leaving. After returning
Colson to her original home in the village of Auckney, Wulfgar began the long
journey north to Icewind Dale. 
In response to the attack on the
Moonwood, Hralien made his way to Mithral Hall
to ask for Drizzt’s help in tracking Tosun, whom the elves believed was once
again aiding the orcs. Once he learned that Innovindil was dead and that Tosun
wielded Khazidhea, a powerful and sentient sword previously possessed by
Catti-brie, Drizzt agreed to hunt down the rogue drow. The same day that Drizzt
departed from Mithral Hall to begin his search for Tosun, Catti-brie arrived
at the dwarven stronghold with Alustriel and an entourage of Silverymoon wizards.
The group from Silverymoon had traveled to Mithral Hall to help construct a new
bridge across the River Surbrin, so that the dwarves would once again
have efficient access to the rest of the Silver Marches and trade could be renewed.
However, Bruenor was angry that Alustriel would not agree to rally the armies
of the Silver Marches against the orcs, and he was determined to show that the
scrolls recovered from the underground city told of how the orcs had betrayed
the dwarves. 
After the successful attacks
against the elves, Clan Karuck and Toogwik Tuk, one of the orc priests
who had conspired against Obould, raised an army numbering in the thousands from
along the eastern edge of the Kingdom of Many-Arrows. Grguch led the horde in a
direct attack against the not-quite-finished defensive wall that protected
Mithral Hall’s eastern entrance. Since Alustriel’s wizards had prepared spells
intended for the construction of the bridge across the River Surbrin, they were
not prepared to help the dwarves resist Grguch’s forces when they launched an
assault that night. The defenders were forced to retreat before the orcs’
onslaught, though not before Catti-brie had her first experience wielding the
power of magic by using some powerful items given to her by Alustriel. By the
time that the mages had prepared their battle spells and a dwarven force
emerged from Mithral Hall the next morning, Grguch’s horde was gone and the
entire building site was devastated. After collecting the bodies of the dead, Alustriel
and her surviving wizards agreed to remain in the area to help rebuild the wall
and finish the bridge, but she still would not send the armies of Silverymoon against
the orcs, much to Bruenor’s rage. 
Several days later, Nanfoodle and Regis deciphered the scrolls
from the underground city, which were written in a language that was a mixture
of dwarven and orcish alphabets. According to the text, dwarves and orcs had
lived together for centuries in the city and relations had continued to improve
between the two races. After gathering additional information from Regis,
Nanfoodle ascertained that the only reason that the city fell was because
something melted the permafrost beneath it, sucking the entire community and
its population underground. Even after Regis and Nanfoodle revealed this
information to Bruenor, the dwarf king was still determined to continue the war
against the orcs. In his anger, Bruenor decided that the best way to defeat the
enemy would be to lead a small but formidable group into the orc kingdom to
assassinate Obould himself. Shortly afterward, a party consisting of Bruenor,
Regis, Hralien, Torgar, Pwent, Cordio, and the dwarf
fighter Shingles McRuff left Mithral Hall
to find Drizzt and add his strength to their band before trying to kill Obould.
Once he
was tracked down by Drizzt, Tosun gave in to the urgings of Khazidhea and
attempted to kill the ranger, but after a ferocious fight he was subdued and
disarmed. Tosun claimed to be innocent of aiding the orcs in the new attacks, and
he and Drizzt joined Bruenor and the others in the assassination mission. However,
the companions were less than convinced of Tosun’s innocence and decided to
keep a watchful eye on him. 
With all of Clan Karuck’s
victories against both the elves and the dwarves, Grguch had made Obould’s
armies restless and eager for war. In response, Obould sent the orc shaman Nukkels
to parley with the dwarves and apologize for the attacks, and he also dispatched
a messenger to Grguch. The riders sent to Mithral Hall were captured by
treacherous orcs, and when Grguch learned of the peace mission, he killed the
messenger sent to him by Obould and prepared his own forces for an assault on
Obould’s encampment in order to overthrow the king and continue the war against
the Silver Marches. As Bruenor and his companions traveled toward Obould’s camp,
Drizzt and Hralien searched for a way to prove Tosun’s blamelessness in the
new orc offensive. Overhearing a discussion between two of the original orc conspirators
that proved Tosun’s innocence, Drizzt confirmed that the rogue drow could be
trusted, and the group immediately moved to confront Obould. 
Upon their arrival, Drizzt and his companions discovered a
brutal battle raging between the followers of Obould and Grguch, and the orc
leaders themselves engaged in single combat. Obould was slowly gaining the
advantage in the fight until Hakuun, the ogrillon shaman of Clan Karuck who was
being by possessed by Jack, started blasting the orc king with lightning bolts.
As Drizzt and his comrades fought their way through the battling forces toward
the orc leaders, the drow ranger forced Bruenor to choose the fate of the region
war or peace with the orcs. Bruenor made his decision by leaping atop the
weakened Obould to launch himself at Grguch. While his other friends continued
to battle the orc soldiers, Drizzt engaged Hakuun and ultimately slew the
shaman as well as the shape-shifting Jack. Bruenor fought a vicious duel against
Grguch, which ended with the ogrillon chieftain disemboweled and decapitated
after Obould joined the clash.  
Once Grguch’s remaining followers were defeated, a battered Bruenor
and Regis, who had been seriously wounded in the fighting, were brought before
Obould. As Bruenor and Obould stared each other down, Nukkels healed Regis at the
orc king’s command. Obould then lowered his weapon and agreed to establish peace
with Mithral Hall and the other nations of the Silver Marches. Due to Tosun’s
brave actions during the battle, Hralien decided to allow him to live alongside
the elves in the Moonwood.
When Bruenor and his companions returned from the fateful
battle, Drizzt gave Catti-brie the enchanted robes that he had taken from
Jack’s corpse, and she began to be tutored in the magical arts by Alustriel and
Nanfoodle. A short time later, in the large chamber in Mithral Hall known as Garumn’s
Gorge, Bruenor and Obould signed a treaty that ended the war between the two peoples
and officially established the Kingdom of Many-Arrows. 
A century after the signing of the Treaty of Garumn’s Gorge,
Drizzt and Hralien remained with the captured members of Casin Cu Calas while they reflected
on those past events. The two discussed how Bruenor’s brave decision to
accept peace with Obould had been for the greater good and had brought a
century of relative peace to the Silver Marches. Drizzt also mentioned how
Hralien’s trust in Tosun all those years earlier had resulted in the drow
marrying the elf leader Sinnifain and the couple having two children together.