| setting      = 
| game_edition = 
| edition1     = Mass Market Paperback
| binding1     = Mass Market Paperback
| released1    = May 2000
| pages1       = 341
| isbn10-1     = 0-7869-1638-9
| isbn13-1     = 978-0-7869-1638-2
| cite1        = Paperback 2000
| edition2     = Omnibus
| binding2     = Trade Paperback
| released2    = April 2009
| pages2       = 495&ndash759
| isbn10-2     = 0-7869-5055-2
| isbn13-2     = 978-0-7869-5055-3
| cite2        = Omnibus
| edition3     = Ebook
| binding3     = Ebook
| released3    = September 18, 2012
| pages3       = 
| isbn10-3     = 
| isbn13-3     = 978-0-7869-6397-3
| cite3        = Ebook
| series       = The Threat from the Sea (3 of 3)
| preceded_by  = Under Fallen Stars
| followed_by  = &mdash
The Sea Devils Eye is the third book in the The Threat from the Sea trilogy by Mel Odom. 
Pacys witnesses the fall of the Sharksbane Wall along with Khlinat and the sea elven high mages. Jherek Wolfs-get is in Immurks Hold and captures Frennick, an associate of Vurgrom the Mighty, for Azla, who is still sailing with Sabyna and Glawinn. Laaqueel continues to help Iakhovas gather artifacts and teleports with him to Vurgroms ship, where Vurgrom shows him the pearl disk that he has been using to divine their course. Iakhovas says that the disk will lead them to a weapon by the Whamite Isles. Laaqueel is plagued by doubts, and has given up eating the flesh of sentients.
From Frennick, Azla learns the location of a diviner that Vurgrom consulted about the pearl disk, and sails there. The diviner, Dehnee, gives them an enchanted astrolabe to track the compass in exchange for a future favor from Jherek. Laaqueel hears a mysterious female voice ever since her near-death experience, and the voice helps her see through an illusion cast by Iakhovas when he meets with morkoth and tries to make them appear human to Laaqueel. Pacys meets with Myrym, a locathah chief, and learns the origin of Iakhovas as an ancient being who once was consort to Umberlee. As the story is told to him, a slaver ship attacks the Black Champion. Pacys learns that Iakhovas conquered much of the surface world and eventually took another lover to make Umberlee jealous, and she responded by tearing out his eye and leaving him shattered and weakened. He learns of the Dukars, an order of wizards who served as diplomats, researchers, and protectors of Serôs, and how they sealed part of Iakhovass eye in Myth Nantar. Whales magically contact him and give him the key to Myth Nantar. The Black Champion is sunk by the slaver vessel, but they seize the slaver ship and defeat its crew.
Azla christens the new ship the Azure Dagger, but the mysterious force that has guided Jherek’s life orders him to join the crew of the Steadfast, a Cormyrean Freesail they encountered. Jherek does so, leaving his friends behind with the intent of confronting and destroying whatever force has shaped his life. Laaqueel watches as Iakhovas allies with koalinth to battle the Ixitxachitl, and slays the Great Whale Bard of Seros, also known as Song Who Brings Bright Rains, to stop the whales from using their song to trap the sahuagin, and to be recognized as king of the survivors of Aleaxtis. Jherek is guided by other whales to the Bard’s body, where he retrieves Irideas Tear, an enchanted item, and starts traveling back to Sabyna.
Vhaemas Homurr, king of the merfolk kingdom of Eadraal, and Tu’uua’col, a shalarin Dukar, discuss the morkoth and koalinth that allied with the sahuagin, and Tu’uuacol tries to convince Vhaemas to accept that his illegitimate son Vhaemas the Bastard, who is king of the rogue merfolk city of Thuridru, has allied with Iakhovas. Li’aya’su, a shalarin tending to a hatchery, witnesses a sahuagin attack on Es’rath and is killed. Pacys’s group discuss the motivation for the attack and realize it was to make the shalarin hostile to outsiders, so that if Eadraal falls, the mermen will have nowhere to run. Iakhovas and Laaqueel meet with Vurgrom in the Whamite Isles and tell him where to bring the pearl disk, but Azla and the Azure Dagger followed Vurgrom there.
Pacyss group arrives at Myth Nantar. He alone is able to pass through the barrier, where he meets a storm giant Dukar, Qos. Iakhovas unleashes kelpies around the Whamite islands, who begin to sing a song. Azla, Glawinn, and Sabyna witness Iakhovas and Laaqueel meet with Vurgrom and use the pearl disk to unlock a passageway. Kelpies begin to lure the inhabitants of the Whamite Isles into the water, where they drown and become undead under Iakhovass control. Azla attacks and a battle commences with Vurgroms pirates, koalinth, and Iakhovas. Jherek arrives with the crew of the Steadfast to join the fight, retrieving a sword from the room unlocked by the pearl disk. He uses the sword to capture Vurgrom and wound Iakhovas, who leaves the battle.
Jherek finally tells Sabyna that Falkane is his father, but the moment is cut short by an undead attack that leaves Sabyna unconscious and greatly wounded. With help from the undead, Iakhovass forces begin to conquer Eadraal, although the use of undead causes unrest among the sahuagin. During the battle at Voalidru, capital of Eadraal, Vhaemas the Bastard betrays Iakhovas and fights alongside his family to defend the city. Together with his father and Joan, his sister, they wound Iakhovas and destroy his trident, one of the magical artifacts he had reclaimed, although Iakhovas kills both children and mortally wounds the elder Vhaemas. The surviving merfolk royalty, Arina and Mirol, travel to Myth Nantar, where they unite with triton, locathah, and the Dukars, causing the barrier around the city to vanish.
Pacys and Khlinat find the Azure Dagger, and Pacys convinces Jherek to trust himself and his destiny. He speaks to the force that has guided his life, finding it to be Lathander, and discovers the power to heal Sabyna within himself. He becomes a paladin of Lathander.
During the battle for Myth Nantar, Iakhovas is able to retrieve his eye, but soon after the Great Gate is activated, teleporting many combatants away from the city, including Iakhovas, Jherek, Laaqueel, the Azure Dagger, Pacys, and Khlinat. The voice inside Laaqueels mind reveals itself to be Eldath and convinces her to find a different path. Laaqueel turns on Iakhovas, and Jherek kills him. Azla decides to give up piracy, Pacys completes his song, and Jherek and Sabyna embrace their new life together.
CategoryNovels
CategoryWorks by Mel Odom
CategoryPublished in 1999
CategoryBooks
enw0a33xp6x7atj7obun75q60ln4n0m