| refs5e        = 
| communication = 
| languages     = 
| alignment     = 
| sentientrefs  = 
| nocat         = 
The Apprentices Companion was a set of instructional book for the novice mages that consisted of at least four tomes, all published sometime before the late 15 century DR.
Volume I of The Apprentices Companion focused on the nature of magic and its absence in the dead magic zones. The tome discussed historical examples when the magic was unreliable, such as the Time of Troubles, during which the Weave was torn apart and reconstructed. These events left scars in the Weave – dead magic zones that rendered all spells unusable and all enchantments non-functional.
Volume II focused on summoning through magic and its uncountable uses. The tomes author expressed their personal preference in using summoning to conjure forth scouts and cannon fodder in battle. As such, the author warned students not to grow attached to summoned creatures as it claimed they were not real, in form, but mere constructs of the Weave. Despite the books text, that was, in fact, not true for all summoning magics.
Volume III was dedicated to enchanted items as a source of substantial power and a great aid in developing a wizards skills. The tome discussed all types of magical amulets, rings, and armor and stated that a single item could very well be the difference between life and death.
Volume IV of The Apprentices Companion focused on various practical spell applications that did not involve combat. Examples included the use of faerie fire or see invisibility to see magically concealed traps, spells like fly and gaseous form could allow the mage to bypass glyphs, and lastly, counterspell could be used to negate harmful effects of some magical traps.
Volume V was titled The Particulars of a Single-Entity Plane and was dedicated to various pocket planes, such as a djinnis lamp or Magiras chest. Such miniature planes were created to hold a single entity at a time and could be used to trap a creature until another willing or unwilling creature entered the plane and replaced its previous inhabitant. Such planes collapsed immediately if no creature was inhabiting them.
In the , several copies of The Apprentices Companion tomes were stored and sold by Tolna Tome-Monger of the Sorcerous Sundries, a  magic shop in the city of Baldurs Gate.