The Tome of Universal Harmony was the most holy book of the god Deneir. It was regularly studied and memorized by his disciples.
It was a large tome in thick black bindings, containing nearly two thousand pages.
The book was worth reading more than once during ones life, as ones perceptions of the world changed, while the words in the book remained the same, so the meaning of those words would change as well.
Thoroughly reading and letting oneself get into the book led to hearing the "song" of the book in the readers mind, that is, the special meaning underlying its words. A reader could get lost in that song though, with the song draining ones strength quickly. Several aged high-ranked Deneirian priests had been found dead over the book though their deaths were attributed to natural causes, it was probable theyd lacked the strength to control its effects. A younger man, Cadderly, thought of the song in contrasts, as strange but beautiful and sweet but melancholy, a song of living and dying, of sunrise and sunset, of salvation and damnation, of eternal energy and finite matter, and everything in between. He even heard voices singing with reverent tones and archaic accents, but could not make out their actual words.
A Chosen could call upon the song at any time and use the power that came with the song. Recalling a certain page, along with the right melody, gave the priest the power to enact different kinds of magic.
Chosen hearing the song have the ability to turn into the animal with which they were the most familiar. Cadderly Bonaduce, a Chosen of Deneir could turn into a giant white squirrel, much like his animal friend, the white squirrel Percival.
When a Chosen was totally into the song, feeling it with his or her whole being, the soul of other people revealed itself in form of shadowy images on top of their shoulders. This effect was called Aurora. The priest saw the shadows as an interpretation of the persons strongest feelings or urgings.
A Chosen sometimes had the gift of prevision―foreseeing events that would inevitably come to pass.
The pages contained various spells that had to be memorized in form of a song, such as spells of healing, words of silence, words of light, a spell to enhance ones hearing, a spell to outline and reveal an invisible person, a spell to dispel malevolent collections of magic, and a spell of hypnosis.