The Desertsmouth Mountains, also known as the Tethyamar Mountains, and formerly known as the Teshan Mountains, were a range of mountains that separated the Dalelands region, to the east, from the great desert of Anauroch, to the west.
The mountains were known far and wide as a range of barren peaks that were infested with monstrous creatures.
The mountains marked the western border of Daggerdale in the Dalelands, and the eastern sands of the Anauroch desert. They were bordered to the south by the Stonelands of Cormyr, and to the north by the Border Forest.
The sands west of mountains held within them one known portal, the Cats Gate, which let to the plane of Cynosure.
The Desertsmouth Mountains were a home to a species of rare wild white Rose.
The westernmost peak of the mounts was Rausrawna, previously known as Mount Shaddath, and its southernmost peak was referred to as "the Watcher",.
thumb|Desertsmouth Mountains around 1420 DR.
Large amounts of adamantine and iron were found in the  in the Teshan Mountains, as they were then known. The great dwarven realm of Tethyamar was founded within the mountains a few years later,  in the .
Both Tethyamar and the The Lost Vale of Tarkhaldale once stood in the Desertsmouth mountains, until they both fell some 87 years before the signing of the Dales Compact. They were overwhelmed by the orc and goblinoid army that marched from Hlundadim.  
In the , the returned lich Sammaster made his lair within the Desertsmouth peaks, using them as a base of operations to orchestrate the activities of the Cult of the Dragon.
In the mid–14 century, the depths of the mountains became the site of a full-scale war between the native orcs and dwarves of Tethyamar.
Landmarks
* Old Tomb, the home of Shattershree, a silver dragon that attracted adventurers and nudged them in directions that would serve her goals.
* Shraevyns Tomb, the resting place of the famous mage that was located in Giants Craw Valley.
Settlements
* Swordcrag, a small mining village that was reformed as an orc fortress.
* Tarkhaldale, the human community that once stood in the western foothills, hidden between the peaks overlooking the Spiderhaunt Wood where the Dracolich Ashazstamn had his lair.
* Tethyamar, the great dwarfhold that was home to the refugees of ancient Oghrann, that was later taken over by the Zhentarim.
Roads
 Teshenfall Pass
The mountain area was infested by mountain wemics, orcs, ogres, goblinoids, including Goblin]] and hobgoblins, along with other monstrous humanoids. including the great wyrm Nexus, a number of copper dragons including at least one mated pair, along with another pair of gold dragons, whom were bound by the Oath of Concord.
The ogre referred to as Big Mountain Man originally dwelled within the mountains, before moving down to the Tesh Valley as did the hobgoblin raider known as Drag.