The Dun Hills were a mountain range in southwest Faerûn, lying between Lapaliiya and the Shaar.
A map marking the arrangement of the Dun Hills and the Wormbones.
The Dun Hills were a series of low hills that formed the western edge of the Channath Vale. Stretching northward from the Bandit Wastes in the south, they arced toward the east into the Shaar. On the western side were the coastal lands around the Shining Sea. On the eastern and southeastern sides were the Misty Vale and Shaareach. The road between Sheirtalar and Kormul ran beside the northern face.
The Cliffs of Talar and the River Talar ran east to west through the range, bisecting it into southern and northern parts, sometimes treated as two distinct ranges.The arrangements of these mountains vary with each map of the region. The Wormbones and the Cauldron are not depicted on all maps, or if they are depicted, they are not always named. Sometimes they are merged with the Dun Hills, and sometimes they are treated as distinct ranges. Taking these different versions together, this article treats them as related ranges.The Wormbones appear to be unrelated to the Wyrmbones, a small isolated mountain range that stands on just the other side of the Misty Vale, and which is also not always named. It is possible that with each map, the Wormbones/Wyrmbones label was misplaced and misspelled.
On the Lapaliiyan side, the western slopes supported little vegetation bar some scrub and the occasional olive grove. Local tribes managed herds of goats, but some ran wild.
The eastern slopes were thickly blanketed in mists and trees, as they descended into the Misty Vale.
Some goat-herding tribes dwelled in the hills. The wild elves of the Misty Vale thankfully did not venture very far west into the hills.
Sheirlantar, the Tomb City of Lapaliiya, stood on the western slopes by the River Talar. For centuries, it was a custom of the Lapaliiyan upper classes to bury the most important among them in the hills above Sheirlantar. Thus, by 1373 DR, many tombs and crypts were scattered over the central part of the range, and undead were an ever-present threat there, though the priests of Kelemvor continually tried to eradicate them.