The Hill of Lost Souls was a lone mountain that stood in the middle of Pelleors Prairie in the Backlands of the Western Heartlands.
The Hill was a long-dormant volcano that had been weathered and softened over the years into a gently sloped mountain with a shallow crater. Between outcroppings of lava rock and obsidian, the Hill was covered in soft grass and bleached bones. Occasional tremors and geysers were the only evidence of continued volcanic activity.
The area was haunted by the ghosts of human, goblin, and orc soldiers who died during the Battle of Bones, all seemingly seeking a way to finally find eternal rest. They referred to themselves as "the Fallen."
Map of the region showing the Hill of Lost Souls in 1367 DR.The Hill stood as a towering landmark over the grasslands of Peleors Prairie. It sat about  east of a tributary of the Serpents Tail Stream, and this was the closest source of water.
Poisonous plants and venomous snakes could both be found on the Hill. The surrounding area also hosted the occasional lava ankheg.
While rocs had been observed to hunt in the vicinity of the Hill, they did not nest on it.
The volcano had been dormant since before the elves came to the North. The Hill was considered sacred to dwarves of the surface, who believed that their gods often walked upon the mountain.
The Hill earned its name following the events of the Battle of Bones in the . In the aftermath of the battle, some 30,000 surviving humans of Artur Blevins armies&mdashnearly all of them wounded&mdashretreated to the Hill to tend to their injuries and care for the dying. After two days, this ragged force began marching southwest out of concern that their goblinoid enemies were on the move.
The Hill was the site of druidic ceremonies meant to control the weather and&mdashduring the mid-to-late 14 century DR&mdashhosted the Hierophant Druid Pheszeltans failed ritual to halt the steady expansion of the Anauroch desert.
It was said that those who slept on the Hill ran the risk of being spirited into a vision of a ghostly battle between humans and goblins, especially if they rested there on Lost Souls Eve. Those who returned from this vision might bear a scar in the shape of the heraldry of the spirits alongside whom they were forced to fight. Experiences along these lines were had by both a local druid named Tharnn Greenwinter
Some dwarves believed that there were massive gem-filled tunnels beneath the Hill.
* A mysterious geyser just west of the hill vented about once a tenday with extraordinary force.
* An outcropping of rock on the western face of the Hill was notable for its resemblance to a lions head.
* Tomb of Thelarn, a dwarf-made tomb of Thelarn Swifthammer rumored to contain his legendary axe, Skysplitter.
Goblins and orcs were known to make pilgrimages to the Hill of Lost Souls, particularly to the sites where the human armies were thought to have camped. These sometimes included ceremonies in which the spirits of goblinoids and orcs slain in the Battle of Bones were summoned to reenact the battle alongside the living. The shrieks and hollers from these events could be heard across the prairie.
A tribe of hill giants lived on the rocky eastern side of the Hill. They were largely disinterested in attacking humanoids unless antagonized, and instead concentrated their efforts on launching attacks on a closely-related tribe in the Battle of Bones region. Their goal appeared to be to "free" their kin from the influence of an undead fire giant who had come to rule over them, and they would launch attacks across the grassland to do battle.
Below ground, the Hill was home to firenewts who lived in tunnels that extended beneath the surrounding plains. These passages were warmed by natural volcanic heat and were made of tempered stone reinforced with support beams.