The Lugsaas, or "Southern Shield", was a chain of mountains in the south of the Great Glacier, which formed the border with the Cold Lands to the south.
The Lugsaas Chain formed the border between Damara and Vaasa in the south and the Alpuk region in the north.
The Lugsaas was the longest and tallest of the three Saas, "Shields", that surrounded and protected the Great Glacier and divided it off from the rest of Toril. This Southern Shield was longer than 1,200 miles, stretching from the Tuutsaas Chain northeast of the Tortured Land to the Angsaas Chain and Sossal.
There were only a few passes through the Lugsaas, in the lower elevations, and they were both dangerous and narrow.
Wild packs of kupuk roamed the lower elevations of the Lugsaas Chain. The peaks were swarming with remorhaz, living in tunnels underneath the ice of the mountains.
A rare, silver-colored moss known as ring moss grew within crevasses in the mountains.
The mountains that would come to be known as the Lugsaas Chain became frozen in ice during the Great Glaciers advance in the -25 century DR.
In the , a cabal of evil wizards who claimed to be from Vaasa caused a citadel of ice to arise at the base of Mount Okk, one of the tallest mountains in the range. It was said that they were experimenting with creating an entirely new school of magic based on cold, and that they had plans to use their new powers for conquest. They were known to have accumulated a large collection of gems and precious metals for their research, said to be guarded in the dungeons below the castle by enchanted monsters made of ice. 
Seven years later, in the  a massive earthquake rocked northern Vaasa and shook the Lugsaas mountains. At Mount Okk, a massive fissure opened to swallow up the ice castle, while an avalanche dumped a massive amount of rock and snow onto the site. No further sign of the wizards or their works are to be had.
During the 15 century DR, the retreat of the Great Glacier had freed the Lugsaas Chain from the ice north of Vaasa and Damara. The western reaches of the Chain north of the Moonsea North remained frozen, and by the late 15 century were known as the Titan Peaks.