Mount Drakkor Rouge was a semi-extinct, partially flooded volcano in the southern Thunder Peaks, in an area later known as the Vale of the Dragon Oracle.
thumb|273px|A map showing the location of Mount Drakkor Rouge in relation to the rest of the Thunder Peaks.
On the side of this mountain was a crater-like depression filled with a salt marsh, Below the mist, temperatures within the crater were about .
The way down into the crater was a steep-walled pass. The last  of this trail were along a high cliff, overlooking the craters salt marsh, which ended at a wooden bridge. This spanned thousands of feet across the marsh, ending at its central rocky landmass. From there was a paved path leading up to a temple. Beneath that temple was a series of large, connected lava caves.
Water seeping down the mountainside filled the craters lake and its only means of escape was evaporation. This marsh lake was roughly  deep and geothermal activity on the mountain kept it at about .
From the village of Volkumburgh, there was a trail leading south up to Mount Drakkor Rouge.
Most creatures that lived within the salt marsh were not native, such as giant leeches and giant scorpions, while some were artificially created, like the gargoyles and swamp sharks.
The island within the center of the salt marsh had its shallow shores lined with reeds and cypress-like trees.
Around the 10 century DR, members of the Cult of the Dragon came to the Thunder Peaks area. While there, they built a wooden bridge across Mount Drakor Rouges crater and carved out what would become the Temple of the Dragon Oracle on its central rocky landmass. They then filled its salt marsh with a variety of creatures in order to protect the temple. Witches among this cell of Dragon Cultists believed that the sulfurous vapors within the craters lava caves would help them to prophesize the future.
Some time between the  and the , some evil force overran the temple and forced its Dragon Cultists to abandon it.
In ,Page 16 of The Shattered Statue states that Flashfire "...came south several years ago in the dragon invasion that destroyed the city of Phlan on the shores of the Moonsea." This describes the event known as the Flight of Dragons, which occurred in 1356 DR. However, that page also states that Flashfire only moved into the Temple of the Dragon Oracle recently. For more information on this, see Note 1. an adult red dragon by the name of Flashfire settled within the abandoned Temple of the Dragon Oracle and subjugated its gargoyle inhabitants.