The Shao Mountains were a mountain range located in southern Kara-Tur.
The Shao Mountains were connected to the Wu Pi Te Shao Mountains and the great Yehimal in the west, but separated by the Hanya Maut Wasteland and the Medan Perang Grasslands.The adventure Ronin Challenge refers a few times to the Wu Pi Te Shao Mountains, but very frequently says simply "Shao Mountains", implying that the latter is a diminutive of the full name. However, the main map in Ronin Challenge is titled "Shao Mountains" and shows the Northern and Southern Wu Pi Te Shao Mountains and a network of lesser ranges in the east (and none called "Shao"), implying these are all part of a larger Shao Mountains network. The Forgotten Realms Atlas resolves this contradiction by labeling the Wu Pi Te Shao Mountains in the west and the Shao Mountains in the east and declaring them to be separate ranges. Owing to this retcon, and because the Ronin Challenge adventure focuses wholly on the eastern ranges, all mentions of "Wu Pi Te Shao" in the adventure should be assumed to actually refer to the Shao Mountains. The legend of the creation of the Shao Mountains allows them to have once been a part of the Wu Pi Te Shao Mountains. Finally, it should be noted that the maps accompanying Kara-Tur The Eastern Realms depict all these mountains as a single, solid mass, with no Hanya Maut Wasteland in the middle, before Ronin Challenge developed and redesigned the area.
Uniquely, the Shao Mountains were divided by a number of finger-like valleys close to the Segara Sea.
According to legend, the valleys of the Shao Mountains had been dug out by the Nine Immortals themselves during the creation of the world, and perfected by the Celestial Emperor.
The Shao Mountains once lay within the southern confines of the empire of Shou Lung.
The lost, ancient city of Tempat Larang were buried in the Shao Mountains.
The valleys of the Shao Mountains were inhabited, but so divided and isolated they evolved very different cultures.