Stoners Needle, also called Needle Rock, was a rocky spire in the Sword Coast lands.The exact location of Stoners Needle is unknown from The Bounty Seekers Of Manshaka, but the sequence of events suggests it is not far outside Waterdeep. The nearby Sword Mountains are a possibility. However, the artwork and conversation depict barren, rocky hills, while the bounty seekers cross a stream or river, which may be the River Dessarin. These suggest Stoners Needle to be located in one of the ranges of hills lying east of Waterdeep, such as the Forlorn Hills/Fallen Hills (apparently bleak and once a dwarf realm) or the Larch Hills.
The extraplanar monster Imgig Zu placed a Lockstone with a frozen greater basilisk as guardian on the summit of Stoners Needle. This Lockstone would restore Jogaoh, who had escaped Imgig Zus captivity, to his original form, but Jogaoh feared the basilisk too much to make the climb up and take the Lockstone. Instead, Jogaoh made his home close to the spire, and made a name for himself as a smith who could work magic. The conditions of the Lockstone imply this took place at least two centuries prior to 1357 DR, so some time before 1157 DR.
In the Year of the Prince, 1357 DR, Vajra Valmeyjar, Cybriana, Timoth Eyesbright, Onyx the Invincible, and Priam Agrivar sought out the famed dwarf smith Jogaoh for his services. Jogaoh agreed to help, provided the companions retrieved the Lockstone from atop Stoners Needle. Jogaoh accompanied the heroes to the stony spire. They camped for the night at the base of the Needle, but close to dawn they were attack by ghoul warriors that clawed their way out of the earth.
After defeating the undead, Vajra, Priam, and Jogaoh ascended the rocky tower, with Vajra carrying Jogaoh on her back and pulling up the weakened Priam. Reaching the summit, Jogaoh revealed his story and took the Lockstone. The magical gem restored the dwarf to his true form as a fire elemental. Jogaoh returned to his own plane, leaving Vajra and Priam to face the now-awakened basilisk. Vajra slew the basilisk, using the reflection of the gem so it would turn itself to stone, saving Priam.