| races         = Bugbears, goblins, hobgoblins, gnomes, trolls, orcs
| socrefs       = 
| usethe        = yes
| useon         =
| inhabitants   = yes
| locations     = yes
| organizations = yes
| settlements   = yes
| roads         = yes
| mountains     = yes
| items         = yes
The Troll Mountains were a range of low mountains in Amn, so named for the rather intelligent trolls that inhabited their peaks. They were considered the "gateway to the northeast".
The Troll Mountains formed part of the northern border of Amn, along with the Cloud Peaks to the west. Between the Troll Mountains and Snowflake and Giants Run Mountains farther to the east lay great open plains.
The average peak height within the range was about 11,000 feet (3,400 meters) above sea level. They were less humid than the Cloud Peaks and were only covered with snow during the winter months.
One of the rivers composing the Esmelflow ran down from the Troll Mountains, and the Khalleshyr river began here as well.
The mountains were notable for their large deposits of gems, nickel, and iron.
Centuries before humans settled the lands of Amn, the Troll Mountains were home to an actual civilization of trolls. The humans eventually slaughtered the trolls nearly to extinction, but they were unsuccessful in wiping them out entirely. The majority of the trolls treasures, including magical items, were never taken by the humans and remained deep in the mountains.
By 1369 DR, the Twisted Rune had placed a magical gate in the area to allow for instantaneous movement to other locations.
The trolls from the Troll Mountains have historically been a problem for Amn. In the northern reaches of the mountains, the trolls were sometimes joined by goblins and orcs.
The infamous red dragon Balagos also made his lair in these mountains.
 Assars Peak  This mountain of iron- and crystal-rich rock was often struck by lightning.
 Mount Batyr  This was the easternmost peak in the mountains and was famous for being the site of the Wailing Dwarf.
 Brigands Gorge  This four-mile-long deep canyon ran through the northern part of the range.
 Eldaths Mount  This mountain contained a 400 waterfall, Green Goddess Falls, which was sacred to the goddess Eldath.
 Eshpurta  This large town in the western foothills had a strong military presence.
 Heralds Hall  This secret headquarters of the Heralds of Faerûn was located within Mount Sklagarra.
 The Gulf of Storms  This was a dangerous temple to Talos, located in a valley between Assars Peak and Mount Thalangar.
 Fort Ilbratha  This old fort used to be a Calishite stronghold from the time of the kingdom of Valashar.
 Qadim Hills  These foothills were in the north, just south of the Green Fields.
 Quarrelshigh  This gnome mining village and garrison was nestled away among the north-central peaks.
 The Smokespire  This extinct volcano was the westernmost peak in the mountains and the home of Balagos.
 Mount Sklagarra  This mountain was the second westernmost of the range and the location of Heralds Hall and the Swordsmere.
 Swordsmere  This series of old dwarven caverns surrounded an underground lake within Mount Sklagarra.
 Mount Thalangar  This was one of the mountains overlooking the Gulf of Storms.
 The Wailing Dwarf  This immense rock carving in the side of Mount Batyr was once an entire dwarven city.