Agni was a Vedic deity of fire and lightning.
Being capable of shapeshifting at will, the amount of limbs on Agnis body tended to vary, though he always kept his skin tone the same. Some accounts spoke of him having one to seven heads or seven tongues, while others described him as having three legs and three or seven arms. His avatar form was that of a large, man with red skin, seven faces, and three arms.
His body was brightly illuminated by an aura of fire that surrounded him and he was never known to wear armor as he disdained its usage.
thumb|273px|The holy symbol of Agni
Agni was a very altruistic and benevolent deity, willing to be a guest at even the poorest of homes. Though those who abused his kindness were liable to garner his wrath.
Agni was capable of manifesting and controlling fire anywhere within the Prime Material plane.Deities & Demigods 1st edition had it that, mechanically, Agni could only control fire within  of him. He could cast any fire-related spell of the elemental sphere as though he were a 50 level spellcaster. The aura of fire that surrounded his body could melt any weapon that did not possess a +4 enchantment or greater.
Agni had the ability to shapeshift at will and his voice could produce an effect similar to the spells charm person and charm monster. Much like a dragon, he could breath a stream of red flames that reached out to .He was also capable of curing or causing any type of disease.
Agni was typically known to fight with his enchanted red axe. Whenever he faced a group of opponents, Agni would always direct his attention first to the strongest among them.
This deity possessed a glowing red axe that would cause anyone struck by it to become paralyzed and then burst into flames. While on fire an individual could not cast spells until the flames had been doused. However, they could only be extinguished by magical means. He also possessed a fan that could manifest wind, an effect similar to the spell gust of wind.
Agni rode around in a one-wheeled chariot that was perpetually burning and looked to be made of red gold. Legends had it that his chariot was fashioned from the "seven winds." Agni also owned two red, giant-sized horses that were invulnerable to all forms of heat and capable of carrying his chariot into the air.
Agni resided within the plane of Limbo, in the region of Agni, in a realm known as Swarga. Befitting its place in Limbo, the realm was very loose and ever changing. All throughout it storms manifested randomly, fires raged, and winds howled. He shared this realm with his fellow Vedic gods Indra and Vayu, who were collectively known as the "Three Gods of Chaos."
Whenever a permanent structure was built within the realm they would strive to destroy it. The most permanent structure that existed was the palace of each god, though even these shifted on occasion and the area surrounding them was blanketed by rainfall. Agnis fire was engulfed in immense flames that threatened to consume anything that touched them.
That aura of fire that surrounded Agnis body was placed upon him in the past as some form of eternal punishment, leaving him unable to touch most things as they could burnt up.
Among the Vedic pantheon, he was considered to be a mediator between many mortals and deities, acting as the sacrificial fire upon altars. Agni was also known to help worshipers of the Vedic pantheon burn away the lingering traces of past guilt that clung to their minds through the use of the aura of fire that surrounded his body.
Prior to the Time of Troubles, he was one of many deities that would send out their avatar to aid his worshipers.
The priests of Agni were typically bald and wore orange robes as part of their vestments. The dogma of their faith instructed them to always have a fire lit within their home, to aid the impoverished whenever asked, and to never leave any beggar go hungry.
His priests typically fought with axes, bows, and torches. They had access to spells from the all, combat, creation, elemental, healing, protection, and sun spheres. They possessed an invulnerability to non-magical flames and a special ability to hear anything that was said within earshot of fire, though they had to think of a specific location.
Within the Elemental Plane of Fire, the efreeti of the City of Brass were known to worship him. He was one of many fire deities that had temples within the Charcoal Palace, though he also had his own temple known as the Eternal Flame Pavilion.