Amaunator (
Amaunator tended to ignore the spirit of the law in favor of the letter of it. From time to time, he was invoked as the god of time. The reason for this was that a mispunctuation in a legal paper with another god allowed him to consider himself the god of time. That said, during the time of Netheril, he did not actually act as one, because he did not want to be on Mystryls bad side, the actual goddess of time, albeit an unofficial one.
His adherence to law was such that he knowingly did nothing to stop the fall of Netheril because he lacked contractual power to do so.
After his return, he gained the memory as a youthful deity and maintained this perspective as something valuable enough to urge his followers to do so too.
Amaunators sight allowed him to discern whether someone was a thief or lawbreaker with a glance as well as invisible creatures and objects. He could also use his eyes to shoot flame strike or sunray every minute.
The Keeper of the Eternal Sun held sway over the sun. This gave him a plethora of protective abilities. He was completely immune to light, fire, and heat-based attacks while enjoying complete immunity to illusions, phantasms, cold-based, shadow-based, and darkness-based spells as well as any fear or other emotion-controlling magic.
The Yellow God was capable of dispersing magical darkness either with a touch or, as long as said darkness was within 120 yards, (40 feet) or (111 meters), with a thought. Another effect his touch created was the instant destruction of any undead who were affected by sunlight. Every 2 hours, he could fill an area within a 10 mile (16 kilometers) diameter for up to an hour with sunlight.
When fighting, Amaunators avatar used his scepter, the scepter of the eternal sun, in physical combat, but only when heavily provoked into one.
Amaunator could grant his Chosen the ability to shed searing light from allies who drew from their inner resources to invigorate themselves.
Amaunator appeared fairly often in the form of a woman clad in a flowing, opalescent dress with an image of a balance made of practically see-through gold upon it. When this manifestation appeared to a person, this person could determine whether he stood in favor or disfavor of the god by looking at the scale. If it scaled to the left, he could be sure to spend the next seven years in poverty, debt, and servitude while losing his fortune. If the scale tilted to the right, the recipient of the manifestation could expect himself good fortune in the material sense. If the scales were balanced, the recipient was receiving an invitation to enter Amaunators clergy.
Another manifestation of his were thirteen giant hyenas. These were sent by the Yellow God to punish people who deserved such or to avenge people who did not have the ability to do it themselves. When these hyenas appeared the offender was killed by them and the body was ripped apart to cover 1 acre (4047 square meters).
Favored animals of Amaunator were tan dogs, cream-colored cats, pure white wolves, birds of prey, especially sunfalcons, and white stallions, which were sent to show his favor or disfavor. The Keeper of the Eternal Suns favored monsters were emerald dragons, sapphire dragons, steel dragons, golems, and takos. His favored minerals were topaz and any red-colored gem. His favored plants were yellow-eyed daisies, sunflowers, and golden lilies.
Amaunators avatar wore a magistrates uniform, and appeared holding a legal tome and a scepter, the scepter of the eternal sun.
He once owned an oak staff with astral diamonds at the base and a sun-shaped one on the head that was worth 23,000 gp.
Amaunators divine realm, the Keep of the Eternal Sun used to be on Mechanus. He lost, with the fall of Netheril, enough followers to die of neglect. His death robbed his ability to maintain his divine realm and his corpse was ejected to the Astral Plane.
Once he came back to life, he created the astral dominion Eternal Sun and lived there with Siamorphe and Waukeen.
Amaunator preached that people needed to follow the law to the letter. The reason for this was the belief that laws were the foundations on which any society was built and disrespecting the law would inevitably cause the collapse of any society. The same adherence was also extended to traditions.
The Yellow God also taught that people had to familiarize themselves with the law to get an understanding how to act in a proper manner that saved them from getting punished. He also wanted people to be organized individuals who met their commitments and were always on time.
His message also extended to hierarchies mortals made for themselves. The Keeper of the Eternal Sun told his followers to adhere to their superiors. The idea behind it was that faithful service would yield them rewards while failure to do so punishment. That said, people were told to keep tabs on their superiors decisions. This was to increase the number of precedents to draw from and help to standardize rulings and with it the relevance of Amaunators message.
Amaunator was the judge over the Pantheon Contour in the Netherese pantheon. He was named the god of time on the basis of a mispunctuation. He never acted on this claim for he did not want to be on bad footing with Mystryl who was the goddess of time in practice.
After returning, he was served by Siamorphe as his exarch and lived with Waukeen on his astral domain Eternal Sun.
Apparently, he found Sune attractive.
ImageAmaunator Symbol-5e.png|5e holy symbol of Amaunator.
ImageAmaunator_-_Mike_Schely.jpg|4e holy symbol of Amaunator.
bg_amaun_symbol.png|The holy symbol of Amaunator, as depicted in Baldurs Gate II Shadows of Amn.
Priests of Amaunator encouraged the establishment of lawful order and bureaucracy in the world at large. They were called on to witness contracts and apply a signatory stamp with the symbol of Amaunator to verify its validity.
Amaunator was a greater deity during the days of ancient Netheril. He was the one who judged over the Pantheon Contour, an agreement between deities.
When Netheril fell, Amaunators worshiper-base shrunk to Netherils lower and middle class. These people abandoned his faith for they believed that he knowingly did nothing to stop the disaster.
On the mortals side, various theories were concocted to explain Amaunators non-existence. Starting with having moved to somewhere else than Faerûn like another world or Kara-Turs pantheon to having become or absorbed by something else like Atar the Merciless or Lathander. 
Belief in Amaunator lived on in at least three different ways. First, the Bedine belief of Atar, the Merciless. This was the result of Netherese survivors telling stories about the Yellow God to the Bedine, which then were twisted over time into that of a woman who was married to Kozah but pursued an adulterous relationship with Nasr. This belief received no divine support and Atar had no clerics. The third belief was in one of Lathanders heresies, either the Three-Faced Sun heresy or the Risen Sun heresy. The former was the idea that the sun was an overgod who had two aspects that were possible objects of worship for mortals. Not all but some believed that Amaunator would return to resume his role as one of these two aspects. The second heresy was the idea that Lathander was the reincarnated form of Amaunator. By the 14 century DR, their radicals believed that Lathander revealing himself as Amaunator was close. Faced with this heresy, Lathander had three options, accept it and turn it into the effective truth, reject it and lose potential worshipers, or let it be and gain more worshipers at the cost of his authority losing its weight. He chose the last one.
In 1371/1372 DR, high-ranked clerics and paladins of Lathander began to receive messages regarding a mysterious event called the "Deliverance", leading them to begin an aggressive recruitment campaign. It was not clear whether this had anything to do with Amaunator.
Amaunators return was heralded by a fire genasi called Daelegoth Orndeir. The man was a believer in the aforementioned Risen Sun heresy and made it his goal to make it the mainstream branch of Lathanders church. He strengthened his base and power in intra-church politics, developed the Amaunators eternal sun spell, and managed to get hold over the Shard of the Sun, a holy relic of Amaunator. He claimed he had seen visions that Amaunators ascension was nigh and gathered his people to Elversult to witness the sign of the ascension in 1374 DR. The sign he referred to were the effects of the Amaunators eternal sun spell, which he developed beforehand. This made people believe him and people flocked to the church of Lathander to join the church of Amaunator while the leaders of Lathanders church were not sure what to do.
Lathander was revealed to be Amaunator in the Year of Blue Fire, 1385 DR, just after the Spellplague. It was not clear whether it was the truth or he embraced a heresy and turned it into the effective truth.
After the Spellplague, Amaunator became an established greater deity of the Faerûnian pantheon. He fulfilled the role of timekeeper among the gods.
He had people who primarily worshiped him as Lathander, his youthful aspect - something Amaunator actively encouraged.
The city of Elturel benefited from a shining globe that was sometimes accredited to Amaunator. However, it was unclear whether the god had anything to do with the sphere. The only one who knew the answer was the High Observer of the city.
In 1486 DR, Lathander returned according to his Chosen Stedd Whitehorn. By the year 1491 DR, Amaunator and Lathander were once again worshiped as separate beings. It is unknown if they were actually separate beings by this time or one was the aspect of the other.
The church of Lathander was not without its notable heresies, including the Risen Sun heresy and the Three-Faced Sun heresy, both of which were prominently focused on the return of Amaunator. The former later proved true when Amaunator returned.
Amaunators belt was a constellation that appeared in the sky above the Spine of the World during the summer.