Asgorath (
Asgorath never manifested himself before his worshipers. However, he made his existence felt as a powerful presence in their minds.
Asgorath, however, could manifest physically if he wanted to, taking on the form of any dragon, and even in forms of other draconic creatures, such as pseudodragons. The oldest myths of dragonkind claimed that Asgorath manifested physically only once, during the act of creating the multiverse. Those who believed in this myth believed Asgorath was so huge, that even his scales were larger than the largest mortal dragon that ever existed.
Despite technically being true neutral, Io transcended the concept of alignment in the sense he contained all alignments within his being. He was simultaneously possessed of the greatest of Bahamuts virtues and the worst of Tiamats vices. Individual avatars of the Ninefold Dragon were known to manifest as specific alignments.
Asgoraths home plane was unknown. He was known to roam across the Outer Planes.
thumb|right|250px|The holy symbol of Io.
Asgorath was revered by dragons of all kinds.
Asgorath had no enemies among the other gods, because of his neutral point of view. Even those of opposing alignments could find common cause under the banner of the World Shaper.
Asgorath had fewer clerics than most draconic deities, though even the most devout cleric of other dragon gods (and many of Kurtulmak) gave him some homage. Clerics of Asgorath had no hierarchy or fixed dogma each interpreted the World Shaper differently, worshiping him in one of his many aspects. Red dragons worshiped him as an evil being, while gold dragons revered him as a paragon of good. Those who would become Asgoraths clerics sought to rid themselves of all such biases, though some never succeeded.
Half-dragons who chose to become clerics of Asgorath were usually ascetic priests, while kobolds who worshiped Asgorath sought out to challenge their own racial preconceptions, seeking to judge members of other races, even their hated foes, with objectivity.
Asgorath cared only for dragons and other draconic creatures, and their continued existence in the world. That means Asgorath could take the side of the dragons if they were threatened by other races, but also that Asgorath could help the non-draconic races to put down dragons who jeopardized the survivability of the race as a whole.
While Asgorath preferred to remain neutral in the conflicts between dragons, if such conflict threatened to escalate, he acted without hesitation to stop it, usually sending a servitor but in rare occasions intervening personally.
Asgoraths rituals involved the blending of many things in a whole, reflecting Asgoraths own nature. One common ritual involved drinking wine with a drop of blood from each participant dissolved in it. 
Prayers to Asgorath were deep and resonating, taking the form of supplication or (for half-dragons) plaintive questions. Although Asgorath never answered prayers, he always listened to them.
Asgorath had few temples. Shrines built in Asgoraths honor usually took the form of open-air constructions surrounded by pillars and topped with domes. These shrines were placed in open terrain—the middle of a desert, the center of a valley, atop the peak of a mountain, or on a vast, treeless plain.
In the final period of the Days of Thunder, Asgorath was released from her imprisonment, along with the rest of her kin, by the Batrachi. Asgorath would prove to be the downfall of her liberators entire civilization when she hurled an ice moon down to the surface of Abeir-Toril in an event known as the Tearfall, wiping out the Batrachi and creating the Sea of Fallen Stars. It was this action that finally spurred Ao to clone the planet, giving the original world, Toril, to the gods, and the new one, Abeir, to the primordials. The Tearfall also coincided with the hatching of a multitude of dragon eggs, giving rise to the belief that Asgorath was the creator of their race.
The debate over Asgoraths alignment and nature was responsible for the most far-reaching of the Draco Holy Wars. Every species of dragon and other dragonblooded creatures was certain that Asgorath represented the pinnacle of their particular race. While silver dragons could grudgingly accept the gold dragons insistence that Asgorath was a lawful good gold dragon, neither could tolerate the red dragons claim that Asgorath was a chaotic evil red. At one time the resulting wars threatened the entire dragon race with extinction. Perhaps it was the subtle influence of Zorquan, god of dragonkind, but eventually most dragons turned away from the war and from religion in general. It was only after the last Rage of Dragons, that dragons drifted back into religious observance.
In draconic mythology, Asgorath created the multiverse itself, although his role in the creation was mysterious and couldnt be understood by mortal minds. According to those myths, Asgorath existed before the multiverse, in a place called "the first void", that was different from the "shadow void" from which the multiverse arose after Asgorath willingly shed his blood to give the potential to exist to all creation.
The "Blending", a creation myth popular among half-dragons, told about how in the beginning all the potential for "existence" was enclosed by a "shell" of nothingness and darkness. Asgorath was born in the boundary between the "shell" of nothingness and the "yolk" of existence, and saw all the things inside existence waiting to be born. Asgorath then decided to grow in size, until he blended with both existence and nothingness, and then began to spin, slowly at first but progressively quicker, until he created all worlds and stars. While he was spinning, streaks of color and metal appeared and became two different rings that also spun and transformed into Bahamut and Tiamat. After that, dragons were created, followed by other living creatures.  However, a small bit of nothingness remained within Asgorath. Half-dragons believed that Asgorath was still spinning but he was slowing down, and  when Asgorath eventually stopped all of creation would be returned to the "egg" of nothingness, where Asgorath would sleep among potential new worlds.
According to the mysterious creation text, the Book of the World, Asgorath cast down the god Zotha and observed the two elements of existence the world that she had made and the Crystal Sun that Zotha had made. She wrapped herself around the Crystal Sun and breathed on it. This caused the sun to shatter with fragments that pierced her flesh and killed her. Drops of her blood fell down upon the world and where they landed, red dragons were brought into existence. The new creatures lamented the loss of their creator, all except one, who pulled a fragment of the Crystal Sun out of Asgorath and cut himself with it. The blood fell to the earth and also created life, though this life was metallic in color, rather than red. Asgorath began to stir so the "Renegade" and his progeny fled to the farthest corners of the world.
Analysis by the scribes of Candlekeep of this text reached the conclusion that this was the red dragons creation myth, and that the Asgorath depicted on it was in fact Tiamat, while the Renegade was Bahamut many counter-theories existed, however, and no hard evidence was available to prove anything.
Common dragon myths hold that Asgorath was able to predict the future, knew every known spell in existence, and owned at least one of every magic item that ever existed in any world.
thumb|324x324px|Asgorath vs Erek-Hus
Dragonborn of Abeir also had myths about Asgorath, though they knew him by the name of Io. The few dragonborn that believed in gods, believed that Io was the one who created them, though there were many conflicting traditions on how the event happened. Some stories tell that Io created the dragonborn at the same time he created the dragons, establishing a natural order dragonborn were created to serve dragons. Other stories said that Io created the dragonborn before the dragons or any other humanoid race existed, as the pinnacle of perfection the other gods used as inspiration to create the humanoid races, pale imitations of dragonborn. There was even one story that tell dragonborn werent created by Io, but instead were born of his blood when Io was killed in the Dawn War by a primordial named Erek-Hus.
Asgorath was also prominent in kobold traditions. According to their old myths, after Asgorath discovered Darastrixhurthi was destroyed, he sought to compensate the kobold race for what happened, even when the dragons who destroyed Darastrixhurti were innocent victims of the Rage of Dragons. He asked Kurtulmak if he wanted to recuperate its fortress or transform into a permanent champion for his race. Kurtulmak chose the latter and Asgorath elevated him to godhood. He also elevated Kuraulyek to godhood as way to protect the first urds from the mad dragons and the rage of Kurtulmak.