| used-by   = 
| variants  = 
| rules     = 3 edition
|type3e=Prestige Class
Auspicians were those individuals who sought to manipulate the powers of luck and fate to give themselves an edge in life, as well as bring ruin upon their foes.
Auspicians traveled the Realms inconspicuous and only occasionally took up the adventuring life. 
In order to gain the title of auspician, an aspiring member underwent a ritual where they consumed a poison called Tyches blood. If they survived, or were fortunate to be resurrected after their death, they were allowed entrance. It was believed this poison was derived from blood taken from the deceased goddesss corpse.
Auspicians were able to gain access to the domain of fate and seemingly wield luck in battle. Once per day they could land an exceptionally lucky blow against an opponent in battle. They could similarly curse their enemies, making them uncoordinated and placing them in a daze.
More experienced auspicians could alter the luck of other people, though could not control whether the new luck was good or ill.
Auspicians could grant himself good luck in a specified area of their life which continued over the course of a single day. As they became more skilled in manipulating the luck around them, they could "lend" this luck to others, and even make this effect permanent.
The most experienced and skilled auspicians were granted the luck of the gods themselves. They could wield the god-like ability to reverse the course of certain actions taken upon them, which typically arose in the most dire of circumstances. Unlike the gods who could use this power whenever they wished, an auspician could only perform this fantastic feat once per day.
These individuals were often worshipers of one of the deities of luck, either Tymora or Beshaba. Regardless of the feud between them and their respective clergies, auspicians of either faith rarely acted against members of the opposing church. 
Some people believed that by killing an auspician they could gain the favor of the gods.