Baphomet (|audio=Baphomet.ogg ) was a demon lord who ruled a layer of the Abyss called the Endless Maze. He was the Prince of Beasts, an embodiment of savagery and an insidious force that wormed its way into the heart of his followers to deceive them into embracing brutality.
Baphomet appeared as a great,  black-furred minotaur with six iron horns. A fiendish light burned in his red eyes.   
Baphomet could spit out gouts of unholy water.
He wielded a giant bardiche called Heartcleaver.
Baphomets realm was the Endless Maze, the 600 layer of the Abyss, supposedly infinite in size. Here, Baphomet dwelt in his palace, the Lyktion,
thumb|right|250px|Baphomet, the Horned King.
Baphomet hated Yeenoghu, and the two were bitter enemies. Theyd warred against each other
Baphomet had an unusual relationship (for a tanarri) with Pale Night, who shared his lair. The two were neighbors with what amounted to an unofficial noninterference pact, as Pale Nights influence did not really extend much further than the edges of her plateau. Though they never joined forces to accomplish a goal, it was possible that any attempt to lay siege to the holdings of one might provoke the other.
thumb|250px|Cultists of Baphomet rampaging.
Baphomet had a multitude of minotaur and humanoid followers and minions. He was also served by bulezau and by ghour demons, a race of demons resembling burly, hairless minotaurs that commanded troops of these mortal minions. He sought to use them to further his schemes, notably to gain the upper hand in his battles against Yeenoghu. A multitude of other twisted creatures revered Baphomet as well, some becoming his thralls, and if they pleased their bestial patron, they would be granted rulership of a portion of the Endless Maze. Those who failed Baphomet were devoured, naturally.
Baphomet granted spells as a lesser deity and had as his symbol a twisted circular maze awash in blood.
Baphomet began his existence as a mortal creature, though it was unknown, even by Baphomet himself, whether he was a beast that lived as a man or a man who lived as a beast. It was also suggested that he was cursed by the gods for daring to treat them like cattle, and thus banished to the Abyss. In any case, Baphomet reveled in his power, seeing the curse more as a blessing.
By the , Baphomet had been captured by an alliance between Yeenoghu and Orcus and resided as prisoner in Orcus layer.The year 1357 DR was derived from the event of King Virdins death which is mentioned as a past event in The Throne of Bloodstone on page 3.