Battleragers were a type of dwarf warrior whose combat style relied on raw instinct, anger, and physical strength. The individuals who practiced this type of fighting were usually mentally unstable with a low life expectancy.
Despite this simple attitude, battleragers were a key element of dwarven warfare. Their almost-suicidal style allowed more strategic fighters to plan and execute more complex techniques, on already worn-down enemies.
Battlerager armor was usually thick and spiked. This armor is incorporated into the fighting style of the battlerager. Most battleragers cover their entire bodies in tattoos and symbols, any skin left bare will be covered in war paint before battle.
Battleragers were known as kuldjargh in their native Dwarvish, which literally translated to axe idiot.
thumb|300px|center|Kuldjargh written in Dethek runes.
Battleragers worshiped the dwarven gods of war and many believed they channeled their gods spirit in battle. Battleragers were also under the impression that if they died in battle, their gods would resurrect them with increased strength. These beliefs allowed battleragers to fully immerse themselves into combat, as they had no fear of death.
The close-combat battlerager style meant that dwarves who practiced it must be skilled in battle and have excellent endurance.
The infamous battlerager fighting style relied on individuals immersing themselves completely into battle, relying only on instinct and aggression.
Once in battle, these dwarves became almost animal-like, their eyes bulged, their teeth ground, and drool flicked from their mouths and beards. Battleragers were taught to use their whole bodies in combat, incorporating their spiked armor, which allowed them to deal fatal blows with a barge, kick, or even headbutt.
Some guilds of battleragers took to riding dire boars into battle.
Battleragers were formed into guilds. These small groups were very exclusive and members lived on the outskirts of dwarf settlements.
Although considered brave by their kin, most battleragers were outcasts, rarely engaging in conversation with other dwarves. Children were kept away from battleragers, owing to their aggressive nature and short temper.
* Gutbuster Brigade A guild of battleragers in Mithral Hall who specialized in using their spiked armor in combat.
* Wilddwarf Brigade A guild of battleragers in Citadel Adbar.
* Thibbledorf Pwent The leader of the Gutbuster Brigade.
* Crunch The leader of the Wilddwarf Brigade.
* Oretheo Spikes Member of the Wilddwarf Brigade.