Blibdoolpoolp (|audio=Blibdoolpoolp1.ogg  nude human female, with a lobsters head and claws. Other depictions portrayed a crayfishs head and claws and an articulated shell covering her shoulders. Those forced to look deeply into her eyes at close range could be driven to insanity.
Blibdoolpoolp was a bloodthirsty goddess filled with hatred for the pain her kuo-toa children suffered at the hands of many races. A special enmity was held for surface-dwelling races, as well as illithids and drow. Humans and particularly elves were spited for the initial driving of her children to the Underdark, while mind flayers and drow were seen as competitors for the little territory her followers had left. On the other hand, her hatred for sea dwellers was relatively minor, except for sea elves.
The Sea Mother was irrational, prone to unpredictable mood swings and fickle changes in behavior. She was also highly secretive, shunning contact with most other deities. She believed herself to hold deeply fundamental magical secrets related to the nature of the universe, but hoarded those secrets to herself, making them impossible to check.
The Sea Mother placed a high value on pearls, which were considerably more effective than normal gems and precious metals in gaining her favor.
250px|230px|left|Blibdoolpoolps form manifesting from a worshiper.
The Sea Mother spent most of the time brooding about her chosen race, while plotting her revenge against those who drove them from the surface. She was known for sending avatars to attend large-scale sacrificial rituals conducted by her priests, in which many humanoids were drowned. She also spent some time holding court for visitors, who made offerings in exchange for small favors from the goddess. Simply visiting the Sea Mother required an offering of exorbitant amounts of gold and gems in the tens of thousands of gold pieces, although the price was lessened if paid in pearls. Those who did not bring an offering to her domain were then commanded via a geas spell to later return and either bring the offering amount or a number of drow as sacrifices. Affected individuals were also forbidden from directly or indirectly harming the kuo-toa until they did so. She did not send omens to the kuo-toa as warnings or assistance, but simply to communicate her pleasure or displeasure, which could be somewhat random due to her unstable state of mind.
Blibdoolpoolp avoided contact with most other deities. Blibdoolpoolp hated the drow, but would not directly oppose them. Instead, she compelled those of other races to bring drow to her as sacrifices when an opportunity arose.
Blibdoolpoolps only worshipers were the kuo-toa, whose priests ran most of their civilization. Her kuo-toa priests kept large black pearls and giant crustaceans in their temples, looking for changes in the pearls coloration or in the animals activity that indicated favorable omens. Priests from different settlements collaborated with each other to ensure their mutual defense, and were mandated to immediately drive away any illithid settlers found close to their homes.
Lobsters were one of Blibdoolpoolps preferred offerings and were regularly sacrificed to her. As a scavenger goddess, she also appreciated offerings of personal objects that were discarded and later recovered. Regurgitation at her feet was seen as a sincere show of faith, practiced regularly by her more devout followers.
The most commonly held ceremonies to Blibdoolpoolp involved the drowning of humanoids. Worshipers requested favors from the goddess by offering copious amounts of gems and pearls. Larger amounts had a better chance of winning the Sea Mothers favor, so an offering of about 100,000 gold pieces worth of gems (or 50,000 gold pieces worth of pearls) would be considered adequate.
After the kuo-toa were driven from the surface, they were captured by the mind flayers and forced into slavery. Unable to resist the illithids psionic oppression, the peaceful kuo-toa were driven to insanity and to an extreme religious fanaticism, inventing deities upon which they relied for protection against their enemies, most notably the drow. If a large enough number of kuo-toa believed in an invented deity, it manifested a physical, albeit nonsensical form.
Some sages maintained that Blibdoolpoolp was simply the most prominent among the deities invented by the kuo-toa, most likely the result of a human statue having been modified by a kuo-toa by adding a crustacean head and appendages and then worshiped as a deity. So intense was the insane fervor of kuo-toa priests that they managed to manifest as clerical powers.
At one point, the young demigoddess Diancastra snuck into Blibdoolpoolps lair disguised as a kuo-toa and stole her magical necklace.