ImageCircle of the Land.png|5e symbol of the Circle of the Land.
The Circle of the Land was the congregation of druids that possessed ancient knowledge of the natural world and safeguarded it for the betterment of the Realms.
Elder Circle of the Land druids work as advisors to rulers and other leaders that followed what was referred to as the "Old Faith".
Depending on where they began their rites as a druid, individual members each focused on a specific ecosystem of the natural world. Each druid tapped into different druidic spells according to their land of origin. Circle of the Land druids could access magic from arctic terrains, coastlands, deserts, forests, grasslands, mountains, swamps, and even the Underdark.
Many druids from the Moonshae Isles, members of the Emerald Enclave, and others in Circle of Swords near Neverwinter, were also considered forest among the Circle of the Land.
Circle of the Land druids were especially adept at moving across hazardous landscape without being hindered or otherwise slowed down.
As they traveled and learned more throughout the natural world, these druids strengthened their constitutions and bolstered their inner willpower. They gained natural immunities to poison and disease, and learned to protect themselves from the charming powers of fey and elementals.
The most powerful Circle of the Land druids projected an aura of greater connectedness with the natural world. This bond was apparent to all manner of beasts and plant life, and affected any feelings of hostility they may have harbored.
These druids held onto secrets regarding ancient rituals and rites that involved and were affected by the living world. They gained access to different circles of spells, each associated with one of the aforementioned land types. These were granted in addition to their usual arsenal of druidic spells.
Taking some time to commune with nature, they could restore their inner reserves of magical energy and cast additional  spells each day.
* Belvyre, a halfling druid of the Ten Towns that strove to alleviate the effects of the Everlasting Rime.