The Circle of Stars was a druidic circle formed in the Dalelands, whose members studied stars and celestial bodies in order gain a greater understanding of the multiverse and its secrets.
Druids of the Circle of Stars recorded and catalogued the constellations they perceived in the nights sky, along with any changes to the natural world they perceived aligned with their appearances. It was said these records were preserved on great megaliths, such as underground temples, petroglyphs, or menhirs,
Druids of the Circle of Stars studied heavenly bodies and quick became adept and creating star charts that tracked their movement across the sky. 
These took the form of common scrolls, stone tablets, inscribed crystals, or even arrangements of glass discs depicting a specific constellation. By studying their charts, these druids could access magical spells that lent guidance to their actions or allowed them to channel divine energy. They could even utilize their star charts as a divine focus.
Like other druids, those from the Circle of Stars could assume a wild shape―the manifestation of a different physical form, typically that of a beast or other wild animal. Druids of Stars however learned to take on the form of the heavenly constellations. Their bodies became luminescent and bright motes of light appeared at their joints, depicting either the archer, the chalice, or the dragon. As they gained more power, these druids learned how to change from one constellation form to another in short time, and even became incorporeal during their transformation.
More experienced learned how to glean more insight from their star charts and receive cosmic omens from their readings. They could use that insight at adverse moments, specifically to bolster aid allies in battle or impair the attacks of their foes.
The Circle of Stars formed in the region later known as Battledale, lending its name to the rural countryside known as "Circle of Stars Country". It was the most famous druid circle of its time, but eventually disbanded some time during or before the early Era of Upheaval.