The College of Glamour was a bardic college whose members mastered the songs of the Feywild. They were considered among the most wondrous and awe-inspiring bards of the Realms, often instilling a feelings of wonder and excitement, along with a hint of fear, in the hearts of their audiences.
Bards of the College of Glamour learned their skills in one of two ways. They either trained under fey musicians and poets, such as eladrin or satyrs, or actually studied while within the Feywild. 
Performances from the College of Glamour were among the most acclaimed of any artists within the Realms. Exalted bards of the college shared heroic tales that bolstered the spirits of the oppressed and persecuted, while its more nefarious members enraptured innocents to carry out their whims, even against their better judgements. 
With their unique powers, these bards could calm the minds of ferocious beasts or bend others to their will. They each adopted a wondrous appearance that bolstered the life force of anyone that took witness of this new glorious form. They learned the secrets of entrancing fey magic, which instilled intense feelings of adoration within the hearts of listeners. Anyone that beheld these performances felt entirely obliged to share the magnificence of the performing bards talents and would intervene against any being that wished them harm. 
As they honed their craft, seasoned College of Glamour bards imbued their wondrous appearance with an aura of stately majesty, that inspired others to service. Witness to this form felt obliged to carry out their commands, as they would a noble-born lord or the regent of their homeland. 
The most accomplished of these bards learned to assume true majesty with their wondrous appearance, acquiring a supernatural beauty that was as predatory as it was alluring. Anyone looking upon the bard felt intense apprehension at drawing their ire, and hesitated before daring to strike at them in battle. 
As of the late 15 century DR, bards of the College of Glamour were held in highly sought after by recruiters of the Waterdhavian adventuring company Acquisitions Incorporated.