First of the Seldarine Lord of Cowardice (derogatory)
Corellon, or more fully Corellon Larethian (|audio=Corellon.ogg), whose titles included Creator of the Elves and the Protector, was the patron god of all elves. He was the creator and preserver of the TelQuessir, governing those things held in the highest esteem among elves, such as magic, music, arts, crafts, poetry, and warfare. Corellon lived in the realm of Arvandor. He blessed those who aided others and became angered at those who defiled the dead.
As the personification of all things elven, Corellon was at once a warrior and a poet, a mage and a bard, and a male and a female. However, in his love of Araushnee, he settled into the aspect of a male gold elf warrior, a counterpart to her female dark elf artist. While he retained the capacity to assume female or male form, he conventionally appeared as an androgynous male elf possessed of lithe build and preternatural beauty. His avatars stood  tall and displayed exceptional speed, reflexes, and grace, as well as a strength obvious to all.
He always appeared wearing a sky-blue cloak, a large amulet displaying a crescent moon within a circle, and a pair of dazzling gauntlets.
While Corellon shared the elven trait of pride that could border arrogance, this never got the better of him. He was a god with an endless willingness to learn from others and acted on it, even including mortals in his sources of discovering new information, methods, and philosophies.
Corellon was a master swordsman and a powerful mage. He expertly wielded his longsword and longbow and could cast spells from all spheres and schools. He could cast any ritual of elven high magic like casting a normal spell and could summon one to four powerful air elementals once every 10 minutes who then served him as long as he needed them.
Corellon was immune to everything that inhibited his ability to move, caused wounds, or tampered with his mind, as well as to all illusion spells. It was impossible to hurt him with a weapon with an enchantment of less than +3.
Corellon owned Sahandrian, his glittering longsword, and Amlathhana, his longbow, which he could use to hit targets up to  away. He did not lack for ammunition because his quiver had an endless supply of arrows.
His amulet worked like an amulet of pure good. He had a wand that worked like a staff of power, staff of the magi, and a wand of frost with unlimited uses.
Corellons realm was on Arvandor on the first layer of Arborea.
Elves believed that they were reincarnated with a definitive, final goal of perfection. Corellon, alongside Sehanine Moonbow, was the souls guide towards that perfected state.
He wandered incognito on Toril to observe priests and craftsmen, and was even known to take a direct hand in protecting elven borders. As a general rule, he watched over the elven race as a guardian.
The one type of magic that the Protector considered too corrupt for elves, and thus the province of drow, was use of the Shadow Weave. He was angered by an elf who experimented with it.
thumb|250px|right|Left to right the gods Labelas Enoreth (top), Rillifane Rallathil, Corellon Larethian, Solonor Thelandira, and Malar (foe, foreground).
Corellon was the leader of the Seldarine, the elven pantheon, who was Lolths, his former wifes, partner in adultery. He was married to Angharradh. Of the three children he had with his first wife, only Vandria Gilmadrith remained with him in the Seldarine.
He was allied with various deities from the Faerûnian pantheon who dealt with nature or magic as well with the leaders of the dwarven, gnomish, and halfling pantheons, because to Corellon, human expansion was a source of fear.
He was allied with his daughter Eilistraee. He was also known to be on good terms with the other deities of magic Azuth, Mystra, and (through Sehanine) Savras.
There was an archfey known as the Rose King who claimed to be Corellons demigod son. Although this was never proven, the archfeys own daughter, Liria Valthorin, became a devout follower of the elven god, leading an organization known as the House of Flowers against the drow that caused the death of the Rose King.
According to orcs, the relationship between Gruumsh and the elven deities degenerated to hostility after the latter participated in a prank with the gods of other pantheons. They rigged a lot drawing to determine where each race was entitled to live and there were none for the orcs. Gruumsh was mocked, but destitution for the orcs was averted by Gruumsh creating a niche for the orcs to live. Henceforth, the orc pantheon was an enemy of the others, including of the elven one.
While the orcs deny it, Corellon was said to have cut out one of Gruumshs eyes.
Corellon counted the whole drow pantheon, the Dark Seldarine, as his enemies. These included Lolth, his former wife Vhaeraun, his son and Selvetarm, his grandson, with only his daughter Eilistraee an exception.
Lolth was once Corellons wife. She tried to take over his position as the head of the Seldarine and failed. For this crime, she was sentenced to banishment. She changed into a spider monster and attacked Corellon. Corellon couldnt kill her and she escaped. Lolth hated Corellon and, due to her inability to fight him directly, her hatred took the form of hurting surface elves. She considered this at best a secondary priority. Having fun at urging and seeing the drow fighting themselves was more important to her than putting efforts in killing the people of her former husband.
After Vhaerauns betrayal during the War of the Seldarine, Corellon Larethian exiled him. He gave up on the idea of getting his son Vhaeraun to abandon his ways.
Other enemies of his were the goblinoid and orc pantheons and Bane, Cyric, Malar, and Talos.
 thumb|250px|A priest of Corellon.
* Fellowship of the Forgotten Flower The fellowship was a loosely structured organization made of elven knights or elven warriors dedicated to the recovery of lost elven relics from long-abandoned realms.
Corellon originally came from the plane of Ysgard. At some point, he decided to conquer part of Arborea by driving out the resident giants and thus Arvandor was founded. The surviving giants went to the land, the elves abandoned their emigration to Arvandor and founded Jotunheim on Ysgard, the first layer of Ysgard.
Corellon once had many forms for every elven aspect, but he settled into that of a male gold elf warrior when he made Araushnee his bride. This was to create a duality with her male and female, warrior and artist, day and night. He also gave dominion over the dark elves to his wife. They had twin children, the elder called Vhaeraun, the younger called Eilistraee, who was the favored one.
thumb|250px|left|Corellon Larethian cutting out the eye of Gruumsh.
By this point, his enmity with Gruumsh was already quite old. According to legends, it started with him participating in rigging lots to the detriment of Gruumsh (see Relationships). In elven myth, drops of Corellons blood mixed with the tears of Sehanine (or in some stories Angharradh) and from this emerged the first elves.
Back home, he was assaulted by Malar, who was persuaded by Araushnee to attack Corellon. They fought and the elven god won.
Araushnee again tried to kill her husband, by starting a war with an army of pantheons opposed to the Seldarine, like the goblin pantheon, bugbear pantheon, kobold pantheon, and others, though this army was expected to lose. The real plan that Araushnee and her son and confidant Vhaeraun pursued, involved arranging for Eilistraee to give her father a cursed scabbard that drew arrows to the wearer, and let her daughter shoot her father to death by drawing her arrows. The battle began, but by this point Corellon knew that he had a traitor in his pantheon. When Ghaunadaur appeared (unplanned for by Araushnee), Corellon understood the depths of depravity the traitor was capable of for the ooze god could only come to Arvandor when a real force of evil was there. He was attacked by an ogre god and tried to draw his weapon but Sahandrian stuck in the cursed sheath and Eilistraees arrows hit him.
Two factors saved Corellon the sturdiness of his ribcage and the fact that Eilsitraee used ogre-sized arrows too big to pass through his ribs. Araushnee tried to poison him with a dose of Eilistraees hunting poison, but was saved by Sehanine Moonbow. The moon goddess created his new wife Angharradh with Aerdrie Faenya and Hanali Celanil. After healing her husband, Araushnee and Vhaeraun were put on trial. Sehanine recounted her story and the sentence was banishment for Araushnee. Eilistraee went willingly into exile at the request of her brother for she had visions of undefined dark times (which would be providing a force for good for the drow against the evil of Lolth and Vhaeraun).
Araushnee was declared a tanarri and after a short fight against her former husband escaped.
Around , non-dark elves chose to create a dark elf–free piece of land. They tried to create it, and would have botched it if not for Corellons and other elven gods direct intervention. Evermeet was created with the First Sundering—the literal sundering of an entire continent—as a side effect. The Protector and Angharradh appeared before Starleaf and gave her the Tree of Souls.
The sun elf nation of Aryvandaar wanted to get rid of the dark elves as a species. They devised a ritual that tied the dark elves to faerzress and thus to the Underdark, keeping them there. Towards that end, Corellons magic, channeled through his priests and high mages, turned all dark elves into drow and they were forced into the Underdark around .
After the Fourth Crown War, Corellon urged the elves to form the Elven Court. They decided House Vyshaan to be the responsible party for the Crown Wars and believed they had Corellons mandate to kill them. The Fifth Crown War started and ended thus around .
Some time before 714 DR, before the fall of Cormanthor, elves wearied of competing with humans over land and wanted land for themselves free of encroaching human expansion. Under Corellon, the Seldarine started the Retreat, a mystical compulsion felt by elves to abandon their lands for Evermeet.
In 1379 DR, a High Magic ritual performed by Qarlynd Melarn transformed hundreds among those drow who were not tainted by Wendonais blood or who followed Eilistraee into dark elves, and Corellon thus permitted the souls of the newly transformed dark elves to enter his domain in Arvandor.
After the Spellplague of 1385 DR, Corellons power stayed that of a greater deity, something that couldnt be said about the other deities of the Seldarine.