|used-by   = Fighters, rogues
|levels    = 5
|rules     = 3.5
A Cultist of the Shattered Peak was a member of the Cult of the Shattered Peak, a secret society whose members were all of Netherese descent.
Cultists were always humans of Netherese descent.  These bloodlines are most prevalent in the Anauroch Desert, Halruaa, Nimbral, on the Sword Coast North, in the Ride, among the Uthgardt, and in the Western Heartlands.
Most members were originally fighter/rogues, though single-class rogues and rogue/rangers have also been known to join the cults ranks.  Paladins are rare due to the cults sometimes ruthless tactics, and arcane spellcasters are banned altogether. They were also required to speak Loross.
The cultists recalled the arcane hubris that was Netherils downfall, not to mention its oppression of nonhumans, and fought to keep the old ways dead and buried. Their goal was to prevent Netherese secrets from being rediscovered, in the hopes of protecting Toril from suffering a similar apocalypse. To this end they employed a myriad of tactics ranging from disinformation and theft to outright assassination.
Cultists normally favored stealth and guile over direct combat, but when forced they attack with ferocity and efficiency.  Their prowess was equivalent to a rogue, and they struck fast and hard, preferably before their target realized that the cultist is there.  Their special abilities, particularly the Death Attack (see below) make such surprise attacks devastating.
Spellcasting  Cultists gained the ability to cast a small number of arcane spells from the schools of abjuration and enchantment.
Ominous Presence  Cultists had a knack for lying and intimidation which was useful for dissuading adventurers from uncovering dangerous Netherese secrets.
Zeal  Cultists had a boost in morale when fighting arcane spellcasters.
Sneak Attack  Like rogues, cultists could stab opponents in the back with lethal force.
Smite Mage  Like paladins, cultists could smash through enemy defenses.
Death Attack  Like assassins, cultists could instantly kill rival combatants.
Cultists were proficient with many deadly weapons, wore light armor, and used bucklers in combat.
CategoryPrestige classes
a4gal07vpbgmsp0vr2248auy9yhwnks