A deathstalker, also known as a deathstalker of Bhaal, was a servant of the once Lord of Murder, Bhaal.
In order to become initiated as a deathstalker, one must have fulfilled a set of strict requirements. First of all, the cleric must have Bhaal as their deity and be adept in hiding, moving silently, and surviving in difficult scenarios. The potential deathstalker must also be able to quick draw their weapon and have proof of murdering at least sixteen different sentient lifeforms, in sixteen different ways. The cleric must also be able to cast spells at a certain level of difficulty, and be attuned to either the Death or Destruction domains.
Once initiated, the deathstalker must adhere to the law of Bhaal. If they violated such dogma, they would be stripped of their deathstalker spellcasting abilities until they sincerely atoned. Deathstalkers believed that every murder committed in the name of Bhaal brought him closer to his resurrection. They were required to murder at least once a tenday, and if this couldnt be fulfilled (say, due to incarceration), they would have to make up for each murder missed.
A deathstalker made sure that each of their murder victims heard the following last words "Bhaal awaits thee, Bhaal embraces thee, none escape Bhaal". Almost all deathstalkers were clerics, although some picked up training as rogues, and very few trained as fighters, etc.
Although it was unknown where the powers of a deathstalker came from, some suspected the influence of Set encroaching on the portfolio of Cyric, while others believed that they came from Cyric himself. Some believed it was due to the rise of the Bhaalspawn or even their dead god, Bhaal.
Those who chose Bhaals dark path would have the ability to fade into the shadows and sneak with extreme care. Deathstalkers, if they studied their victims carefully enough, could, during a sneak attack, paralyze or even kill them. They could also direct the hatred of a living creature within 30 feet (9 meters) onto another creature. This mind-affecting method could lead potential enemies to distract each other, or even thin their own numbers, before a deathstalker struck.
It was said that the last gasp of Bhaal would resurrect a loyal deathstalker, if dying in service to the dead god himself.
* Amelyssan the Blackhearted