farmers
Demeter ( of worshipers, holy sites, sacred objects, as well as any location where her name or one of her many titles had been spoken in the last hour. And could sense anything that affects cultivated crops the instant it happened.
Demeter was capable of shapechanging at will, in a manner similar to the wild shape ability of druids. She could take the form of all but gargantuan animals, including dire animals, six times per day. While she could take the form of an elemental three times per day. At will she could also polymorph others and create any type of weather for any length of time.
Demeter could summon, control,
Her avatar form was capable of casting spells from the spheres of animal, elemental, healing, and weather.Legends & Lore (2nd edition) states that she can cast spells from the illusion school of magic, but Deities and Demigods states that she is prohibited the use of such spells. Some of the many spells her avatar form was capable of casting included the following
antimagic field, barkskin, changestaff, command plants, control plants, earthquake, elemental swarm (as an earth spell only), entangle, iron body, magic stone, mind blank, plant growth, prismatic sphere, protection from elements, repel wood, repulsion, sanctuary, shambler, shield other, soften earth and stone, spell immunity, spell resistance, spike stones, stone shape, stoneskin, wall of stone, and wall of thorns.
Demeter possessed a chariot that was pulled by two ancient green dragons.
She wielded a longspear that was made of ash wood and carried a +2 enchantment, though in later years this enchantment was enhanced to a +5. Additionally, her spears enchantment made it so that trees would sprout from any wound made by it.
Demeter lived in a rather common-looking cottage amidst an immense field of golden grain in the divine realm known as Olympus.
Demeter was among the first six Olympians,
Demeter went on to be the wife of Poseidon for a time, eventually parting ways as he took up residence in Aquallor. She then went on to marry Zeus and bore him a daughter named Persephone. This child would later be abducted into the Underworld by her brother Hades, However, Persephone had already sealed her fate by partaking in the food of Hadess realm. Zeus would intervene in the matter, brokering a compromise that allowed Persephone to spend part of her time in the underworld and part of her time in Olympus, what mortals would consider equivalent to six months.
Demeter would go on to mourn the loss of Persephone every winter, during which time the crops of Olympian worshipers would not grow, and hold a longstanding grudge against Hades for what he had done.
Throughout their time knowing each other, Demeter had always gotten on well with the Faerûnian goddess Chauntea.
Her favored proxy was a human by the name of Triptolemus. He drove a chariot pulled by a pair of bronze dragons and scattered grain seeds wherever he went.