Dreadmasters were the specialty priests that devoted themselves to the Bane. They were terrible tyrants in their own right who sought to rule Faerûn in positions of power that were seconded only to their dark god.
Much like the god whom they worshiped, Dreadmasters sought to control everyone around them, using the tools offered by Bane to inspire fear and loyalty in equal measure. They typically reached the heights of any government or organization of which they were a part, garnering their own fanatical following in the process. They believed that only they were capable of the control required to keep order, overseeing every bit of minutiae within their domain.
They often developed strong cults of personality that attracted many followers. They demanded great loyalty from their subservient devotees of Bane, second only to that held for the Black Lord himself.
Over time, Dreadmasters honed their ability to gain insight into the motives of others, and gain whatever information they could when speaking with others. 
Dreadmasters were unaffected by spells and effects that attempted to fill them with fear. Conversely, they each possessed an overwhelming, frightful presence that instilled fear in others and intimidated then into submitting to Banes will. Once per day they could rid themselves of the goodly beings that may have tried to get in their way.
The most powerful of these Banite priests were capable of creating ghostly red whips with which they could subjugate their lessers.
Dreadmasters were infamous for collecting items and decor that best reflected their status as being superior to others, or those that granted them an edge in their never-ending quest for control. They were especially fond of magical rods, such as those terror, rulership, and even wands of fear.
Within the church of Bane, dreadmasters were often relegated to the lower-ranked titles and positions. In contrast to this dynamic, dreadmasters often found great followings operating independently of the church and its factions. By virtue of their magnetic personality, they were capable of attracting many followers, and one or more dedicated cohorts. 
They spent months grooming and training these followers, shaping their devotion to their own will. Among the types of creatures who sought out Dreadmasters were doppelgangers, helmed horrors, various types of beholderkin, displacer beasts, and those creatures unique to Bane and his devotees, namely baneguards, banedead, and even banelars.
In the years prior to Banes death in 1369 DR, the Dreadmasters composed about one tenth of the greater church of Bane.