Dunatis was a minor interloper deity of mountains and peaks who originated from another plane of existence.Dragon #65, "Tuatha De Danann — A revised Celtic mythos" notes that the Deities & Demigods sourcebooks source for Dunatis is a mystery. But the author of that article does note that Welsh versions of the Mabinogion briefly mention someone named Ossol, quoting from it, “under whose feet the highest mountain straightaway became a plain.”
The avatar form of Dunatis was that of a rather ordinary looking human male.
Dunatis was allegedly one of the most approachable members of his pantheon, as he found himself rarely called upon due to his portfolio. He was even known to prefer spreading the word of his faith himself.
Dunatis was immune to charm, paralysis, and petrification effects.
The most notable power of Dunatis was to flatten large mountains into flat plains and vice versa. This effect occurred instantaneously and was often utilized to destroy an enemys fortifications. He could also manifest boulders in thin air and throw them with great accuracy at targets up to  away.
Dunatis owned a shield and set of armor, both with a +4 enchantment, that he always donned when entering combat.
In the kingdom of Bakar, a survivor state of the Imaskar Empire, a mighty city known as Medinat Muskawoon housed temples to gods of faiths that the populaces ancestors brought over from their original worlds. Among these temples was one dedicated to Dunatis.
The Pinnacle stands out proudly on a map of Tir na Og.
Dunatis lived within the Outlands, in the divine realm of Tir na Og. His own divine realm within Tir na Og was a vast mountain on its fringe, known as the Pinnacle. Though just a single mountain, the Pinnacles terrain varied considerably across its surface, from nearly flat areas to sheer, steep rocks. Trees covered the slopes of this mountain and wild animals could be found roaming freely about it.
Dunatis was known to be revered by some rilmani.
This deity claimed to have been the one responsible for the creation of the Spire that stood at the center of the Outlands.