Finder Wyvernspur (
When Finder Wyvernspur walked the Realms in his avatar form, he kept the appearance from his final days as a mortal. He looked like an ordinary bard in his early 60s. His garb was simple, sometimes topped with a set of leather armor. Despite his age, he was an attractive, strong, tall, dark-haired man. However, he was known to take on a younger or older appearance as he preferred to remain incognito. Finders favorite sword could always be found at his side – the Sword of Songs, a powerfully +4 or +7 enchanted bastard sword that also slightly boosted his physical strength. His natural charisma was enhanced by the bards divinity. Those under his command felt inspired, and even Finders mere presence affected his allies like a bless spell. The deitys charisma and biting comments and banter were cutting and massively discouraging to his opponents.
Apart from his avatar form, Finder was known to take on a form of a bright beacon of light, guiding those who were lost to safety or leading his devotees to things and people lost. Another manifestation was a bright glowing nimbus visible to one individual intended by Finder. The halo outlined the object that could lead the observer to fulfill their deepest wish. At least on three occasions, Finder manifested himself to his dear friend Olive Ruskettle as a daisy going swiftly through its life cycle yet remaining beautiful through it all. Observers claimed that they heard braying of a burro during some of these manifestations for Olive,
Finders will and words were sometimes delivered through faerie dragons, firestars, parrots, various song birds, talking owls, and bhaerghalas that served the deity. In some rare cases, Finder showed his favor by sending mortals Laerals tears gems, carved with his symbol of a harp.
After his redemption, Finder was a kind yet a vain man. His mock title, the "God of Reckless Fools," was given to him due to the gods own recklessness. With time, Finder shifts to be more responsible and towards being good. Despite that, in the 14 century DR, Finders name was still considered synonymous with ego. Mortals said, "an ego the size of Finders" and swore by "Finders Pride." Among Harpers, the deity still had a spotted reputation, despite being pardoned by the Tribunal. The tale called Finders Fall was a cautionary tale among Those Who Harp.
Initially prideful and zealously protective of his songs, Finder learned to appreciate and love transformative art through his daughter. As a deity, Finder encouraged the spread of his music and sponsored all artists to grow by changing, transforming, and recreating works, perhaps the biggest sign of the vain Harpers change of heart.
When pressed to confrontation, Finder always fought valiantly for a cause. Such causes included protecting his allies or friends, forcing him to use all resources at the gods disposal to win or reach a truce. He was not above using magical means of persuasion or lying. In cases where combat was unnecessary or not worth the time and effort, Finder simply left the heated situation via the teleport without error or the plane shift spells. In battle, he used ranged spells and attacks first before using the shapechange sorcery, transforming himself into some powerful and fearsome monster.
When Finder took on Moanders divinity, the portfolio of rot received artistic interpretation to fit Finders personality. The rot represented pride, arrogance, and vanity, with his main portfolio being the transformation of self and art – renewal from rot.
As a deity, Finder could weave spells from any arcane school or divine sphere but greatly favored enchantments and illusions that drew on musical metaphors. He could cast or maintain the charm spells indefinitely, even when his magical powers were exhausted for the day. The same was true about his shapechange ability Finder could use at will.
Finders skills in music were such that his songs transcended mere music, inspiring others to great works, renewed vigor, or deep despair.
Around 1370 DR, when the Great Wheel cosmology was favored, Finder Wyvernspur had just established the realm of Fermata for himself on Arboreas first layer, Olympus.
In the World Tree cosmology, the Nameless Bard had his divine realm within Selûnes palace in the Gates of the Moon, and music could always be heard within his rooms.
Finder Wyvernspur being a charming scoundrel.|400x400px
Finder was born into the noble Wyvernspur family of Cormyr circa the . His parents were Amalee Winter and Lord Gould Wyvernspur, and Finders only sibling was his older brother, Lord Gerrin Wyvernspur later in life wed Maritha of Mistledale, continuing the Wyvernspur family tree.
In the years preceding the Harpstar Wars, Finder adventured with the so-called Finders Band. One of the notable members of the Bands first iteration was a Harper mage Iriador Wintermist who initially joined the group for an adventure but ended up traveling with Finder for several years until her death in the Harpstar Wars.
Inevitably, Finders works were copied by other performers, who added their own twists to his songs. It was inevitable that their performances would thus veer from the level of perfection that Finder strove for. In anger at the perceived corruption of his works, Finder vowed to create a method by which his songs would be preserved in the ideal state, that is, the way he himself wanted. Disregarding the advice of powerful mages who claimed it was too dangerous, Finder first modified an artifact, the Finders Stone, to act as a recording and playback device for his music, spells and a personal journal. He accomplished this by inserting a sliver of para-elemental ice into the stone, cooling it while simultaneously expanding its storage capacity. The Stone was a success. However, Finder wasnt satisfied by the flat, unliving playback it delivered.
To make his music both "alive" and immortal, he then devised a magical clone of himself that he could fill with memories, including his music. This construct became known as Flattery Wyvernspur. He was physically almost identical to Finder. However, the egotistical Finder was unsatisfied by the emotionally childlike and inexperienced constructs imperfect reproductions of his music. After only a week of unsuccessful practice, Finder lashed out in frustration and struck the Flattery. He continued a cycle of abuse until finally, the sentient construct snapped and attempted to kill his "father" with a ring of disintegration. One of Finders apprentices died when he threw himself in front of the beam, while another was later driven to suicide by guilt and Flattery, who became a great villain in his own right. This resulted in a severe backlash to Finders reputation within the still fledgling Harper organization, despite his attempts at a partial cover-up. He claimed his apprentices were injured in an explosion in which the construct was also killed. Flattery actually escaped and cleaned out Finders lab. Finder himself was brought to trial before the Harper tribunal, which included Finders friend, Elminster.
The verdict was harsh many Harpers had watched Finders obsession grow, and the fatal result of his attempts to preserve his music were viewed as a terrible crime. The Harpers condemned Finder to timeless existence in the Citadel of White Exile, located on the border between the Positive Energy Plane and the Quasi-Elemental Plane of Minerals. His songs and his name were wiped from the memory of everyone in the Realms. Only a few select individuals, such as Elminster and Morala of Milil, remembered them, in case they should emerge again.
Centuries later, in the , the sorceress Cassana found details of Finders experiments and tracked him down in the Citadel. She offered him a second chance, though her motives for doing so were dark. He accepted, and the result was the adventuress Alias, another construct, whom he filled with false memories and all of his music. Alias was also "enhanced" by Cassanas allies, granting her eternal youth, and magically binding the newborn woman to serves as a tool by each of the parties, including servants of an ancient god of rot Moander. Despite being a confused and newborn thing, Alias, guided by nothing by instinct, cradled and protected a fellow prisoner of Cassanas. When Finder witnessed the humanity and goodness within the construct, he orchestrated her escape. Subsequently, unaware of their true origins, Alias tracked down her creators, overcoming every one of them, earning freedom, and meeting Finder, known only as "Nameless". He discovered that she, too, had been adapting and changing his music to enhance it. However, Finder found he could accept this fact. During that adventure, Finder met a hin "bard" Olive Ruskettle, one of Aliass new friends. The Nameless Harper quickly formed a bond with the diminutive thief and gifted Olive his harper pin, making her a Harper herself.
Within a year, Flattery reemerged and attempted to steal the Wyverns Spur, the artifact and heirloom of the Wyvernspur family of Immersea. Flattery was killed when Giogi Wyvernspur used the Spur against him. Olive Ruskettle was among those who helped defeat Flattery, but in the process, she learned of Finders past sins. However, it did not change Olives feelings for her new Nameless friend.
Now returned to the Realms, Finder was yet again put on trial, this time to determine whether he could be reintroduced into the Realms or returned to the White Citadel. After a long and dangerous journey with his halfling friend, Olive Ruskettle, Finder found the love and courage within himself to sacrifice the Finders Stone and save the Realms from the evil deity Moander. At that time, Moander had enslaved a number of the otherworldly reptilian humanoids known as saurials, and captured the Turmish mage Akabar Bel Akash in a plot to build a new body. By dismantling the Stone and using the para-elemental ice at its core, Finder was able to slay Moanders real body in the Abyss, and unintentionally claimed the deitys divine essence for himself. Moanders portfolio of rot and corruption, however, remained unclaimed by the bard.
In doing this, Finder freed the saurials, one of whom, Dragonbait, was traveling with Alias at the time, who had been enslaved by Moander. Finder immediately gained the worship of this stranded race (excepting Dragonbait, who followed Tyr), as their own deities remained in the world they left behind. He was also pardoned by the Harpers for his bravery, and his name and songs were restored to the Realms.
thumb|Finder Wyvernspur and his late 14 century 426x426px
Still a fledgling power, Finder started to develop a base of worshipers at the urging of his first priestess, the saurial Copperbloom. To do so, he manifested himself to a young bard named Joel, posing as the elderly priest Jedidiah, who espoused the wonders of Finders vision. Joel later became close friends with Finder, as well as his first human cleric, from the time they spent together searching for an artifact, the Hand of Bane. Together, they traveled to the city of Sigil in the planes, searching for the artifact. Finder siphoned his divine spark into the shard of Finders Stone to be able to enter the city under the control of the Lady of Pain. This reckless act almost cost Finder his divinity as the stone was almost lost to Walinda of Bane and the banelich who sought to become the new Bane.
In the , Finder involved himself in the plot by a deity Iyachtu Xvim to steal powers from both Tymora and her sister Beshaba by manipulating Lathander into attempting to merge the two into their “mother”, a long-dead goddess Tyche, a one-time consort of the Morninglord. Finder tasked Joel, winged warrior Jas, and kender Emilo Haversack with untangling the plot. During the adventure, Finder and his ally Selûne attempted to cure Jas of an affliction imposed on her by Xvim during the quest of the Hand of Bane, only to realize that the feral form was self-inflicted, a cruel manifestation of grief and guilt. Eventually, Finder successfully rescued Tymora with some hands-off aid from a deity of Krynn – Fizban, patron of kenders.
Following Finders apotheosis, the worship of the god grew but was mostly private and modest. Finders worshipers usually gathered in small congregations within the homes or personal areas that belonged to his devotees. The worship spread throughout the realms by 1480s DR. The faith was considered to be an "upper room" cult, not persecuted, not considered evil, nor was attempted to be stomped out, but the worshipers prepared to keep it low-profile. In Waterdeep, a modest temple to Finder was erected in 1372 DR, making the rituals less private and moving them to the more prominent shrine, away from residences and the Plinth. The new temple was in the Trades Ward, converted from a shop with two floors of living areas above.
Circa the , a smattering of the Cult of Moander sought to return their deity to Toril by taking divine essence from Finder via ancient Netherese magics.
Following the Second Sundering, Finder remained a deity, albeit more private than before. His divine home was within Selûnes realms, the Gates of the Moon. On occasion, Finder traveled the planes and visited places on Toril that were dear to his nostalgic heart. Mother place of worship for Finderites was the Fools Altar in Baldurs Gate, active in the late 15 century DR.
*Lhomme Arme, or the Armed Man, an old song of Finders that once was wiped from everyones memory but was popularized once again by Olive Ruskettle after Finders apotheosis. The song was used as Iriador Wintermists spell against bards.
* Standing Stone, an ancient elven melody that received masterfully crafted lyrics from Finder.
*Tears of Selûne, a hauntingly beautiful and sad love song.