Forest runners were a variety of rangers that selflessly dedicated their lives to vigilantism, compelled by a personal code to fight against unjust or tyrannical systems of governance and to provide for the less fortunate that suffered under them.
While the title "forest runner" implied these rangers were restricted to woodlands, the "forest" part of the name could actually be swapped out with whatever terrain it was that they did business in, resulting in such alternate titles as desert runner or mountain runner for example.
Viewed by the powers they fought against as being no better than lawless rogues, these types of rangers always lived on the outskirts of society, making do with very little. Such rangers tended towards delighting in the torment of authority figures in the corrupt systems they fought against. They often found themselves viewed by the commoners as a sort of hero, which gave way to offerings of food and shelter.
Forest runners were often found living as loners due to their circumstances, constantly being on the run from the authorities. They were more than willing to join an adventuring company so as to escape from the law, spread justice further afield, or to acquire treasure for distribution to those less fortunate.
All forest runners were skilled in the arts of making and fighting with bows. They were generally considered to be quite adept combatants. Much like rogues they typically had some skills in stealth and disguising themselves. And due to their charismatic nature, they could often invoke a rousing speech amongst their allies.
Just as other types of rangers honed their combat skills against particular foes, forest runners developed theirs in relation to the corrupt government they fought against. This creature could either be one that was against ones that was a symbol of the government, a pet of the tyrannical ruler, a creature that they wielded as a weapon of their authority, or one that was aligned with the corrupt government (such as an allied tribe of goblins).
Typical weapons for a forest runner included such things as daggers, long bows, long swords, and quarterstaves.
* Myndhl, a forest runner that operated in the Dalelands in the late 14 century DR.
* Vaggit