Gypsy was a general term used to refer to itinerant people of a typically roguish nature, though the exact prevalence of rogues among such people was possibly exaggerated. Such people might otherwise be referred to as forest nomads or in some places as tzigone.In The Magehound it is said that the word tzigone meant "...gypsy in some obscure northern tongue...", but it is never specified what specific language the word came from. In the context of the novel, "northern" would mean anything north of the nation of Halruaa. 
People classified as "gypsies" lived rural, nomadic lives, traveling from place to place, sometimes in groups with horse-drawn carts and wagons, Occasionally they settled in one place for an extended period of time and operated stores. The life of a gypsy was usually had by humans, elves, Elves were generally well disposed to such people, especially wood elves, as were most rogues, bards, rangers,
All gypsies lived by some form of rigid code of personal honor and laws. These were colored by the morality and values characteristic of each individuals alignment, that instilled among some outsiders a sense of distrust towards gypsies.
They generally did not have any societal hierarchies, although sometimes they would lay claim to the titles of "King" or "Queen" in order to gain advantage in bartering,
thumb|273px|There are many fortunes to be read by Madam Eva of the Zarovan Vistani.
Much like bards, having gathered much knowledge and common sense during their journeys. This, coupled with a common proficiency in music, lead many such people to take up the life of a true bard. 
What gypsies were most well known for were their skills in fortune-telling or soothsaying, often charging a price for their services. They often utilized decks of cards in telling fortunes, such as a tarokka deck, or crystal balls.
There existed a great variety of gypsy groups across the wider Realms, as well as beyond Toril itself in the form of the aperusa of wildspace, the Rhennee of Oerth, and in the Domains of Dread, with the most notable group of Ravenloft being the Vistani.
Throughout Faerûns Western Heartlands there were the Gur, a human ethnic group
In the Vast, another region of northern Faerûn, was home to many people that identified as gypsies, especially in the city of Ravens Bluff. There anyone not a member of the citys bards guild had to pay for a temporary permit in order to perform, an exception was notably made for gypsy bards so long as they first paid their respects at the guildhouse after entering the city. Madame LaTachia and Jadrian, a jewelry merchant and member of the Knights of the Hawk.
Gypsies were often gifted in the Art, Common spells included clairaudience, clairvoyance, ESP, object reading, precognition, and telepathy. Fledgling mages, not yet skilled enough to use true forms of divination magic, might resort to learning spells that would allow them to fake seances, such as magic mouth, ventriloquism, unseen servant, and audible glamer. In place of arcane magic, other gypsies cultivated a connection with nature and gained the use of druidic spells, such as animal friendship, locate animals or plants, and speak with animals. 
Beyond magic, it was quite common for gypsies to be psions,
Many gypsies uniquely possessed an ability to lay curses upon people, with some being so powerful that only a deity or the gypsy themselves could undo a curse. They also had an affinity for identifying or recognizing the presence of curses.
Beyond innate abilities, gypsies often possessed or were skilled with magic items that emulated divination spells and utilized them in their fortune-telling, This left them to choose such things as hide armor, leather armor, studded leather, padded armor, and sometimes even elven chainmail, though others felt even the metalwork of elves couldnt be trusted when it came to stealth.
Across many realms it was commonly found that gypsies wore vibrant clothing. In the Vast for instance, gypsy women were well known for dressing in embroidered skirts that were brightly colored.
Rather than engaging in direct confrontations, gypsies preferred the rather roguish approach of stealth and trickery. They were typically quite skilled in fighting with daggers and knives, though were also known to fight with such weapons as bows, crossbows, and one-handed swords like the khopesh and scimitar. They generally forewent two-handed weaponry, such as polearms.