Haela Brightaxe (
Haela often appeared in a spectacular, albeit harmless, burst of sudden blue-white flames as a  tall, heavily muscled female dwarf. Sometimes she was armored in fine dwarven scale mail or plate mail and at others she was clad only in her silver hair, a long, flowing mane and beard.
Among the dwarves and their gods, Haela was well-known for her gregariousness and always upbeat attitude. The charming demigod delivered gallows humor quips with a wide smile and laughed readily and infectiously in her booming voice. but wasnt unthinking, proving herself rather resourceful.
By constantly spinning and twirling in a battle dance, Haela could parry the attacks of her enemies and thwart those made against her nearby allies. Though incapable of stopping magical attacks, any attempt to cast spells was ruined by her movements. When fighting off an individual or pair of foes, they stood practically no chance of advancing or landing a hit on her, but the more opponents she faced, the harder it became to deflect all their moves, and flying foes were doubly difficult to fend off. If mobbed by more than eight enemies at once, her dance of battle would be insufficient to fend them off, but she could still fight bare-handed and could parry her foes just as easily disarmed as she could when wielding a weapon. The presence of the Luckmaiden would cause great exultation in the dwarves nearby, allowing them to fight even harder while watching her.
Magical weapons were needed to injure the Lady of the Fray, but even these could be insufficient to harm her. Once per day, for around nine minutes, Haela could make herself intangible to metal weapons, causing them to pass through her while also making her unable to pick them up or deflect them. Once this protection was invoked, she could transfer it to any other creature by her mere touch. Similarly, she could cast resurrection on a single being once per day as well, instantly restoring them to life.
Manifestations of Haelas powers always involved an aura of silvery flames speckled with blue-white and amber sparks, although this was merely visual and lacked any actual heat. If her aura surrounded a dwarf, they would be instantly healed of all injury and magically imbued with her power, so much so that it extended to their weapons and gave them the properties of being both silver and enchanted. If she surrounded a weapon with her aura, it would become supreme never missing and always striking their intended opponent in the way that harmed them most.
However, it would be counterproductive to use this on already magical weapons since their supernatural properties would be suspended (and therefore unable to be drained or tampered with) and would only be able to do physical damage until the power faded. Whether used on a dwarf or weapon, Haelas imbued aura would fade after about 2-5 minutes. She could imbue her aura from a great distance away and in the middle of her battle dances, though she couldnt fully focus on parrying then. She was also known to manifest her pleasure through the discovery of her favored gems and her displeasure when such items dissolved into puddles of blood.
Haelas typical weapon of choice was Flamebolt, a two-handed sword oversized for her height always encircled by tongues of spiraling, but harmless, flames when she fought. The sword couldnt hurt her, and she often hurled it into the air only to catch it by the blade, vaulted upwards to a high ledge or balcony with a hand upon its edge, or exuberantly slid down the sword itself. She could cause the sword to vanish or reappear in an instant, although it required a few dozen seconds to manifest after being sent away and vice versa.
Every ten minutes or so, Haela could also call upon her titular Brightaxe, a shining throwing axe of silver as tall as a man. Within a minute, the axe would suddenly appear in midair before spending the next flashing through the air according to Haelas will, although she couldnt use any other magical powers during either length of time. The axe flew up to , assuredly injuring whatever it struck and, if mortal, leaving the targets stunned and thus incapable of performing any voluntary actions, including spellcasting or activating magic.
Haelas domain was in Brux, the perpetual evening layer of the Beastlands. Her personal "realm" was a pleasant grotto known as Findar Endar, hidden by the ever-present mists deep within the surrounding forest. A simple cave served as her dwelling and she kept to herself, leaving the animals that dwelt within alone. Finder Ender still existed in Dwarfhome, though her cave was a remote cavern tucked into the foothills of the divine realm.
The cave was protected by seven Guardians, einheriars made from the souls of her favorite fallen dwarven warriors that were her primary servants. Though they wielded normal weapons, the Guardians had truesight, couldnt be turned and reformed 2-5 days after being slain and dissipating.
right|Haela and Clangeddin driving off the foes of dwarves.
The Lady of the Fray was rarely found at home, usually going through wildspace or a world like Toril where dwarves were enjoying battle but needed help. She preferred making direct appearances to those she was assisting, and only rarely empowered a dwarf or weapon without appearing herself. Even so, that was when no other help was needed, or in situations where the dwarves needed only to hold the line until she could arrive. Once she appeared, she faced off against the foe of greatest ferocity or most dangerous to the present dwarves, battling for about four minutes and moving on to the second most pressing threat if the first was defeated.
Rather than actually fight the enemy for those she was rescuing, her aid came in the form of a distraction, keeping the enemy busy with her battle dance while the dwarves regrouped and got the injured to safety. Haela healed dwarves only if she deemed it necessary, and customarily only revived dwarves that died valiantly in battle, although if begged to by the dwarves, she would aid nondwarven allies and companions as well. If the engagement took longer than four minutes to resolve, Haela would close her appearance by healing around 2-8 dwarves, striking a single blow in earnest, empowering a dwarf and/or weapon, and then vanishing with her hand held high, already racing off to the next conflict.
Rarely did she stay in one place for long and she almost never returned to the same individuals or fights twice in a day. However, over the course of their lives, her favored dwarves, those of particular valor and boldness, might receive multiple visits from the Luckmaiden. Upon the death of such individuals, she would carry them away to become her Guardians and avenge them if they were slain by hunting down their killers, no matter their strength or how long it took, although she considered their blood price already paid if they were raised after she killed them.
Like most of the dwarven gods, Haela had always been in good standing with the majority of the Morndinsamman, respected as she was for her lively manner and pleasant company. She was thought to be one of the most recent additions, being the granddaughter of Moradin and Berronar rather than a direct descendent. She made sure to honor her more established and powerful brothers and sisters in the Morndinsamman, in part because she was the only active and widely recognized dwarven demigod in the Realms, by never acting against their wishes, though she accepted only Moradin as her superior.
left|Gorm, Clangeddin, Marthammor, and Haela (far right) after besting their foes.
Of her kin, she preferred the company of Marthammor Duin and Clangeddin Silverbeard, with whom her portfolio overlapped. Being a goddess of dwarven warriors that travelled far from home, she worked closely with the Finder-of-Trails, with whom she shared an interest regarding the surface world.  The Lady of the Fray and the Father of Battles both had a love for combat and had good relations, She also was one of Dugmarens regular partners, assisting him in the exploits he so often got involved in.
Berronar was somewhat cool towards Haela viewing her antics (as well as those of Dugmaren and Marthammor) with patient humor. The Revered Mother believed the younger dwarven gods had yet to set into the rules dictated by propriety, and anticipated the day when they and their followers would settle down to traditional clan life. The greedy Abbathor, who was always interested in luck, had sent increasingly more dangerous threats to Haela ever since she spurned his interest. Like most of the accepted members of the Morndinsamman, Haela was an enemy of Laduguer and Deep Duerra.
Haela was so focused on the dwarves of Toril that she had little time for gods outside her own pantheon. Still, she could count several among her allies, including many from the halfling pantheon. Brandobaris, halfling god of adventure and stealth, shared a role with her as one of Dugmarens typical accomplices. Arvoreen, halfling god of vigilance and dutiful defense, and Cyrrollalee, halfling goddess of friendship and hospitality, were also associates of hers. Others included Tempus, the Lord of Battle, Eilistraee, drow goddess of redemption and notable for her dancing swordplay, and Tymora, a goddess of luck possibly originating from the halfling pantheon.
Aside from the more unsavory gods of her own pantheon, Haela had traditionally dwarven enemies in the pantheons of orcs, goblins, kobolds, and evil giants. Also counted among her foes were Beshaba, Tymoras counterpart of misfortune, and notably Urdlen, the gnomish god of greed, though the mole hated everyone and everything.
right|A cleric of Haela.
Dwarves of all moral and ethical alignments venerated Haela the Hard, but the active worship of the Luckmaiden was seen in particular types of dwarves. Battle-loving dwarves that wandered the surface and had to face monsters and unknown dangers, particularly in the North, turned to the Lady of the Fray. Her active followers often exhibited berserker tendencies and a chaotic or neutral good alignment (though chaotic neutrality and true neutrality was also seen among her clergy).
Haelan clerics were called the kaxanar, which could be loosely translated as "bloodmaidens". The vast majority of her clergy (85%) were female, and before the Time of Troubles they were entirely so, though the male members didnt seem to have a problem with the feminine title, difficult as it was to try and emasculate a raging warpriest painted in a fresh coat of blood.
Haela was particularly well regarded by shield dwarves, who made up 70% of her clergy, particularly those that wandered. Her cult among the younger gold dwarves of South Faerûn (that made up about 28% of her clergy) had been growing steadily, as both males and females among them were favorably disposed towards her love of unrestrained fighting, they themselves enjoying nothing more than a good battle against their old Underdark foes. Ironically, the other two percent of her clergy was primarily made up of the brutal duergar.
right|Haelas symbol
It was the teachings of Haela that freedom and validation could be found in the exhilarating nature of battle, and to rejoice in the power of ones swing, the sound of smiting worthy foes, and the challenge of the fray. Haelan clerics fought monsters whenever they could find them, either to destroy the evil beast, or just for the thrill of battle, though a noble, honorable foe would be shown mercy if asked. Priests and priestesses aided dwarves by traveling Faerun looking for conflict, wandering since there was no way to know when or where they would be needed. They relied on the Luckmaiden to guide them where they needed to be, and trusted her to see that they made it through the battle regardless of the apparent strength or numbers of the enemies they were cutting down. Those that believed in her benevolence would be blessed, and the besieged and beleaguered dwarves would always be saved through her by her faithful.
Haelas followers aided hard-pressed dwarves, as well as their known allies and companions, not only by fighting alongside them, but also by healing them and casting certain spells. Senior priests made use of their monster hunting experience by sharing great amounts of information regarding the tactics, secrets, habits, lairs, and weaknesses of specific creatures with their juniors and others who asked. Their goal was to ensure dwarven victory with minimal losses, and they wished to make all dwarves comfortable with their own combat skills, believing as they did that the survival of the dwarves would be dependent on their battle prowess.
Kaxanar prayed for spells in the morning, a ritual accompanied by the tracing of elaborate scars on their forearms that had originally been ritually carved there upon initiation into the order. Most scars were accepted geometric patterns, but a few iconoclasts among the "free-thinking" order used their initiation to carve profanities or lewdness into their skin. On each of the faiths holy days, the devout were expected to offer several drops of their own blood, as well as the blood of dwarven enemies, proportional to the followers capabilities. Only one drop of blood per defeated enemy was allowed as sacrifice.
Haela, along with Gorm Gulthyn, died in the Morndinsammans battle with the duergar deities Laduguer and Deep Duerra in 1383 DR. However, it was possible that she still had influence outside of Realmspace.
In the wake of the Second Sundering, signs indicating the return of Haela in the Realms, as well as her duergar enemies, had begun to surface. Circa 1486 DR, a party of adventurers might have witnessed a female voice with no discernable source utter a Dwarvish battle cry, while the eyes of a statue dedicated to Haela Brightaxe flashed on their own. This supposed event was seemingly a result of the adventurers showing their respect to the late dwarven goddess within the halls of Firehammer Hold, a temple dedicated to the Lady of the Fray which, at that point, had been recently conquered by a group of duergar led by a durzagon known as Nalifarn.
Flamebolt.png|Haelas symbol from Demihuman Deities