Hanali Celanil ( ) was the elven goddess of love and beauty. During the time of the Spellplague, she held her position by serving as the fey aspect of the Faerûnian goddess Sune. However, with the coming of the Second Sundering, she was once again an independent goddess. 
Hanali was a being of timeless beauty and benign nature, she always forgave minor transgressions and felt delighted in rewarding her followers with the joy of unexpected love and affection. 
She embodied romance, beauty, love, and joy in elven spirits, she was, however, flawed with mild vanity and a flighty nature.
Although she rarely appeared to her faithful, Hanali took joy in seeing the growth of love among elves, and she often protected young lovers in secret.
Hanalis allies included Eilistraee, Cyrrollalee, Isis, Lliira, Lurue, Milil, Sharess, Sharindlar, Sheela Peryroyl, Sune and Tymora, her daughter, Melira Taralen, as well as her leader, Corellon.
She opposed the machinations of the evil drow deities and the Deities of Fury. She additionally opposed the cruelties of deities such as Bane, Cyric, Shar, and Talona. 
250px|Hanali Celanil at far left.Hanalis clerics were flighty and somewhat vain, given to dancing and wild celebrations. 
The hierarchy was loosely organized, and clerics were free to join or leave a temples ranks as they wished. 
They presided over marriages and rites of passage ceremonies for young elves, although they werent required to marry, as Hanalis concern was love, and not necessarily marriage. 
Members of Hanalis clergy spent their days cultivating beauty and love in all their myriad forms. Many of Lady Goldhearts clerics tended fine gardens, while others amassed personal or temple-based collections of gems, crystal sculptures, and other fine works of art. While things of gold and crystal, particularly jewelry and statues, were favored, beautiful art in any form was admired, collected, and displayed. 
Hanalis clerics always had to be finely dressed, and displaying ones personal beauty to its best advantage was a requirement of every cleric of the Heart of Gold. The clerics dressed in gold robes and worshiped her by fountains and springs.
Clerics of Hanali prayed for their spells whenever the moon was highest in the sky, a time of romance. 
While Hanalis clerics were given to frequent impromptu revels, their greatest celebrations were held every month beneath the bright light of the full moon. Such holy days were known as the Secrets of the Heart, as romantically involved participants were said to experience the full bloom of their affections on such nights, allowing them to evaluate the strength of their feelings. Likewise, the inner beauty of celebrants visibly manifested as a rosy glow in their cheeks and eyes for days thereafter. Offerings of objects of great beauty were made to Lady Goldheart during such holy festivals, some of which were swept into Arvandor while others were returned to be shared among Hanalis followers. It wasnt uncommon for artists to unveil their latest work at such holy days, nor was it rare for young lovers to either pledge their troth secretly or proclaim it to all assembled, as doing so was said to invite Hanalis favor.
thumb|Symbol of Hanali Celanil.
Main article CategoryTemples to Hanali Celanil