A Harper paragon was a member of the Harpers who best exemplified what it meant to be a champion of good and a staunch opponent of evil found throughout Faerûn.
In order to achieve status of a paragon, an individual was required to swear their devotion to the Harpers and not stray from the dictates of their code. They were required to hold themselves up to the highest virtues and standards of morality.
Many of the Harpers who operated out of the city of Berdusk, under Lady Cylyria Dragonbreast tended to follow the path of the paragons. Conversely, few of their numbers could be found among the Moonstars or the stubbornly independent locale of Shadowdale.
Just as with other Harpers, paragons were experts at acquiring information and lore about the world around them.
Due to their righteous and altruistic nature, Harper paragons radiated an aura of goodness around them. By the same token they were capable of readily uncovering malign intent nearby around them. This goodness extended to a paragons spellcasting capabilities as well, allowing them to cast spells that typically could only be cast by those with celestial ancestry. 
Any Harper paragon who was able to attract an animal companion could also win over one of a number of other benevolent beasts, depending on their moral outlook. Notable examples included blink dogs, asperii, giant owls, unicorns, or a variety of other celestial creatures. 
The most powerful of the paragons wielded the power of their goodness in battle. Their powerful attacks were magnified by their overpowering charisma, capable of smiting the most evil of beings. 
Like Harper agents, paragons often dedicated themselves to thwarting the efforts of a particular heinous organization. Paragons also focused their efforts on holding back the malign influence of evil outsiders, or even the destruction and chaos brought upon by certain humanoid races such as orcs, goblins, or gnolls.
* Eather Heilean, the life-long Harper who was tasked with "cleaning up" the operations of the Waterdhavian branch of the organization.