Harper mages were those members of the Harpers who were responsible for preserving knowledge related to the arcane arts and assisting their comrades with their own spellcasting abilities.
The mages of the Harpers have been an integral part of their organization since its founding. Throughout its history they have developed some of their own signature spells and magical methodology.
In order to become a Harper mage, an individual had to be sponsored by a Harper in good standing and face approval by the High Harpers.
First and foremost Harper mages studied the Art and everything that accompanied its practice. Beyond that however, they thoroughly engrossed themselves in several fields such as history or the study of nature. While they rarely held the same high esteem as other scholarly groups they were venerated scholars.
Throughout the years, they have similarly gained insight into the arcane building blocks that formed the construction of elven mythals. Harper mages have passed this information down, from one member to the next, for quite some time.
Like all members of the Harpers, mages had quite a knack for picking up useful bits of knowledge and lore about nearly every corner of the Realms. Through their studies they became quite knowledgeable about arcane practices attributed to far off lands, and those to long-lost Realms from ages past.
Harper were trained how to cast their spells without the use of material components, where they would typically be required. Their collective knowledge about mythals allowed them to alter their spells in a manner that extended the duration of their effects.
As the Harpers garnered the blessings of several deities, Harper mages gained some boons that were divine in nature. The blessing of Oghma granted them great insight into their understanding of the world, and the grace of Mystra protected from from harmful magic.
Like other spellcasters, Harper mages wore no armor any only armed themselves with simple weapons, if any.
These mages were rarely found beyond the company of their fellow Harpers.
* Aluena Halacanter, the leader of the town of Serpents Cowl.
* Nleera Tarannath Tesper, an agent who posed as one of the ghosts that haunted the Tespergates family villa in Waterdeep.