Zigguraxus
Hoar (
Hoars favorite avatar appeared as a tall (either  or  tall) dark, gaunt man wearing a pair of gold bracers and the clothes of a noble or rich merchant, typically of Unther but sometimes of Chessenta or west Faer没n. He had jet black eyes and dark hair shaped into long, ringleted strands and a pointed goatee.
The Doombringer usually seemed tired and battered, with several poorly healed, serious cuts across his body, a dry, hollow chuckle, and an overall haunted appearance.
Hoars favorite manifestation were three deep rolls of thunder that echoed across the skies, often punctuating fitting punishment dispersed upon a guilty individual. Another common manifestation was a ghostly hand that presented itself only to the guilty party as it delivered its ironic punishment.
The Doombringers good will could be discerned through appearance of red-colored gemstones shaped as a tear, while Hoars fury was communicated via discovery of pulverized Laerals tears. His servants were various aerial servants, invisible stalkers, cursts, feyrs, harrlas, haunts, justice incarnates, keres, living steels, revenants, lhiannan shee, and maruts.
Hoar was a god prone to violence, mood swings, and had a penchant for bitter humor. He had a morbid fascination with doomed mortals and sought to unleash misfortune on those who deserved it.
The 15 century holy symbol of Hoar.
Hoars worshipers rarely held official sermons and participated in organized worship. The gods name appeared on the lips of those seeking vengeance. Hoars hand was said to be responsible for unlucky accidents that took lives of wrongdoers.
If one wanted to seek vengeance on another by praying to Hoar, it was believed that writing prayers down made them more likely to be answered. To ensure a long-lasting reach for prayers, some vengeance seekers carved them into items made of lead. These were then buried to keep others from knowing about them.
In the lands around the Sea of Fallen Stars, Hoar was worshiped as Assuran, a deity of revenge, While in North Faer没n, Hoar was seen as the deity of poetic justice.
Besides those seeking justice, Hoar was worshiped by bounty hunters and some assassins. Prayers to the Hurler of Thunders were uttered before operations. The most devout among his worshipers tried to emulate Hoar by killing or capturing the marks in an ironic style.
Among other deities, Hoar was an appealing god for githyanki renegades found in the Realmspace, who did not sway too much to extremes of good nor evil. Fey wild hunters were creatures who sought to exact vengeance on behalf of fellow fey. They venerated both Hoar and Silvanus. Half-orcs were among less exotic non-humans who often turned to the worship of Hoar.
Temples to Hoar were rare and usually found in antique parts of Chessenta and Unther. Another well-maintained shrine to the deity could be found on Dragonisle in the Sea of Fallen Stars. Some of the other notable places of worship found in north and south Faer没n were
*Amphitheater of the First Thunder, a coliseum temple in Mourktar where the accused and accusers clashed in gladiatorial battles.
*Hidden Hand of Fate, a temple in the Arch Wood that saw growth in worshipers following the Time of Troubles.
*Temple of Hoar in Bezantur, the City of a Thousand Temples, was the main place of worship of Doombringer in Thay.
*Thunderous Hand of Vengeance, a loyalist temple in Akanax that sought to claim the leadership of the faith.
The worshipers of Hoar were encouraged to celebrate vengeance and punishments on a personal level. There were only two festivals holy to the Doombringer the Penultimate Thunder and the Impending Doom. The Penultimate Thunder celebrated Hoars triumph over Ramman, on Eleint 11, with lavish feasts. The Impending Doom was a ceremony honoring future justice, celebrated on Marpenoth 11. The observance of the holiday lasted for an entire day, filled with ceremonies of oaths, exhausting acts of purification, all performed to the music of rumbling drums.
380x380px
Hoars recorded origins stated that he was worshiped in the ancient Unther, where he was known as Assuran in the nations of the eastern Inner Sea. Many centuries before the Godswar, Hoar battled Ramman, the god of war of the Untheric pantheon. The battle of divinities was ruinous for Hoar as he and his devotees were pushed out of Unther by Ramman.
Despite losing a majority of his worshipers in Unther, the cult of the Doombringer remained active in Unther, Chessenta, and the cities of Akanax and Mourktar. However, Assuran was no longer worshiped as part of the Untheric pantheon. With time, even the cult of the Doombringer lost worshipers to Anhur, the Mulhorandi god of war, introduced to Unther by Chessentan mercenaries.
In the , during the Time of Troubles, the deities of Unther and Mulhorand were greatly reduced in power as they stalked the Old Empires. The god-king avatars attempted to increase their divine powers by absorbing powers vested in their mortal incarnations however, that plan failed. In Akanax, Hoar took the body of King Hippartes as his avatar. Then he appeared in Thay to obtain a cache of weapons, where the avatar that held Hoars essence became a target for a power-hungry Red Wizard of Thay known as the Masked One. The ambitious wizard saw an opportunity to claim powers of a weakened deity, but with the aid of Overgod Ao and Elminster, the Masked Ones hunt was unsuccessful.
As the gods returned to the planes and the Time of Troubles came to an end, Hoar withdrew from the Realms. His church was slowly growing throughout the Heartlands. As of the , Hoars thunder has not been heard for a decade, and theories of the deity being dead started appearing. In reality, Hoars divinity was reduced to that of a demipower, and he retreated to plot revenge against Anhur.
By the 1370s DR, Mulhorand took control of the two-thirds of Unther while faith in Hoar was lit anew with zealot passion. Along with Hoar, zealots of Tiamat, Anhur, Sel没ne, and Horus-Re all fought for religious dominance. While Hoarites waged vengeful war against Untheri and Mulhorandi enemies, Hoar himself was searching for a worthy emissary in Unther to guide the faith to its former glory. Hoar enjoyed the poetic justice of taking back territory from his long-slain opponent, even if it took him centuries to accomplish.
With Tyrs death, Bane recruited Hoar as an exarch, causing Hoar to take on a more cruel persona.
Following the Second Sundering, Hoar shifted back to his more neutral outlook. He became something of a counterpoint to Tyr&mdashconcerned with punishing those who would break the law, whereas Tyr focused more on his role as an arbiter.
*Twilight Knight, a young 15 century vampire member of Westgates Night Masters.
*In Threskel, locals believed that Hoar, or Assuran, made a home in the Mount Thulbane volcano. In the 14 century DR, the volcano was the lair of Jaxanaedegor, a very old vampiric dragon. The undead green dragon assumed the guise of Assurans aspect to lead the local worshipers of the Doombringer..