Luthic (
Luthic appeared as an  tall, female orc with dark brown skin unprotected by any armor. Her skin tone was lighter around her nose and ears, while her hair and eyes were a dull shade of black. She also had black,  long claws, and was often thought to take on the guise of a giant cave bear.
Though she could hardly be said to be a kind figure, being known for her pure viciousness and easily provoked, nasty temper, Luthic was the most matronly (as befit her role) and perhaps the least wicked of the orc gods. She smiled upon healing granted to the deserving (those injured in war) and dealt with the wounded with terse efficiency. Few beings were as implacably dogged and fiercely protective as the Cave Mother, who would sooner rip apart any threat to her children with her bare, clawed hands than let anyone take them from her.
Despite her ferocity, Luthic was also cunning and wise, capable of manipulating others into serving her own ends. While Gruumsh saw his eternal war with goblinkind in Acheron as a chance for his people to combat an eager foe, allowing them to prove themselves to their gods, Luthic took the long view of the conflict and could understand its cosmic implications. The lessons she imparted on her children were for all their survival, whether on the Material Plane or throughout the multiverse.
Luthic used various magical methods to undo her foes. She could create a literal storm of blood, causing necrosis in anyone caught within the rain, and her mere presence was a call for blood to be spilt. She could incite a blood frenzy that made wounded allies more deadly, and the injured near her were not only made more vulnerable, but if struck by someone in a blood frenzy, would put them under her control.
Luthic could inflict wasting illnesses on those who irritated her and render others so vulnerable to disease that even the most minor ailments could prove fatal in less than a week, with only three wish spells able to undo the curse.
Aside from her overtly sorcerous powers, Luthic drew much of her strength and endurance from the earth itself. She healed from her wounds while in contact with the earth (though she could fly through hovering if she chose) and could not be paralyzed, petrified, blinded, or deafened if underground or otherwise in the dark. Even the rest of her pantheon feared her great claws, which could not only extend several feet, but were unbreakable and strong enough to tunnel through solid rock.
Avatars of Luthic were known to carry a stone controlling earth elementals and potion of extra-healing.
right|275px|A Claw of Luthic.
Luthics particularly devoted also grew out and lacquered their nails in imitation of their goddess, which the Blood Moon Witch sometimes rewarded by making their claws as tough as iron, talons that they would learn to use as weapons just as Luthic did. The most powerful of the Cave Mothers disciples were the Claws of Luthic, who tended to the orc brood, raising them to be as strong and cruel as their parents, from deep within the caves. Given magic to heal, protect, and curse, Luthics claws would keep the tribe together by any means necessary, whether by tradition and superstition, omen and ceremony, or fear and force. To be beaten and bloodied would only make them fight all the harder.
Integral to the Cave Mothers teachings was of the importance of earth, with which she had a strong affinity. Life sprang forth from the ground and the caverns sheltered that life, for caves were the bastion of orc strength and a source of their valor, ensuring the race would survive as long as they stayed close to the earth (and Luthic with it). The followers of the Blood Moon Witch were to honor her wisdom, for her strength was at the core of an orc horde and an orcs bravery. Enduring the hardships of life, understanding ones position in the tribe, and doing ones part to strengthen and guarantee the tribes survival against the predations of its rivals was paramount.
Furthermore, the Cave Mother was the the orc goddess of fertility, (moreso for females, with Gruumsh being prayed to for male virility) She was said to dig the dwellings of her children herself, and her worshipers followed suit, digging deep into the caverns of their dens to create more living space for the desired, ever-expanding population while the rest of the tribe raided. In the hopes of having many children, Luthican orcs were known to rubbed dirt on themselves.
The clerics and adepts of Luthic prayed for their spells daily, when the moon was highest in the sky.
Were it not for the influence of Luthic and her followers, the orcs would likely be little more than small bands of marauding nomads barely able to scratch out a niche for themselves in the world, rather than a dangerous force able to muster hordes of warriors.
The orcs had been fighting a cosmic war with the goblins for eons on end, battling the minions of Maglubiyet for eons without resolution. Gruumsh was partially to blame for the poor state of his pantheon, for in his attempt to claim a plane for the orcs to call home (while refusing to yield to Maglubiyets goblin legions) the orc pantheon had been forced to move across the multiverse. They had been reported as being native to the Nine Hells, Gehenna, and Acheron, and the dogged refusal of either side to admit defeat lead those who studied the war to believe it would never end.
The archmage Tzunk however, had a different perspective, noting that Maglubiyet had never faced such a bestially protective foe as Luthic before. If need be, the Cave Mother would take to the battlefield without hesitation and claw out Maglubiyets beady eyes to protect her children, and Tzunk predicted that the war would end with Luthic the only one remaining, the Great Mother ascending to rule her warrior children.