Marthammor Duin () was the neutral good dwarven god of wanderers, the patron of dwarves who had left the clanholds to explore the world, and for a time an exarch of Moradin. The young Finder-of-Trails approached life with a gnome-like demeanor, curious to see what lay beyond the horizon and the Watcher over Wanderers was always willing to trade stories of travels. His was the rare spirit of dwarven exploration, and the spark of curiosity his followers associated with bursts of lightning.
On worlds besides Toril, Marthammor was often referred to as Muamman Duathal, and some in the Realms still worshiped him under this name.
Marthammor was known to appear as a thin dwarf with a dark beard, wearing leather armor and furs along with a cloak of natural colors (typically green).
When appearing before dwarves on the material plane, Marthammor was known to take the form of either a glowing blue-white disembodied hand, a glowing mace, or a glowing magic mouth, depending upon the situation.
Marthammor was said to reside in the Cavern of Rest beneath Nidavellir, though was rarely found there as he spent most his time traveling across the northern regions of Faerûn. His home was guarded by the souls of dwarves who had perished
while traveling the surface, as well as by boars and war dogs that he had trained himself.
300px|Symbol of Marthammor.
Other members of the dwarven pantheon saw Marthammors behavior as antics and hoped his interest in the world above would soon pass. Moradin was grateful that at least his youngest son was more disciplined than Dugmaren, one of Marthammors greatest friends.
He hated the gods of orcs, goblins and giants and held special enmity for the hill giant god Grolantor.
thumb|A female 518x518px
Marthammors clergy were known as the volamtar ("blazers of fresh trails"). They represented one of the most widely recognized dwarven churches of the surface wide, particularly in the North. Volamtar marked wilderness trails near dwarven strongholds to make the path of those that might follow from the clanholds easier. They patrolled trade routes and game trails between human and dwarven enclaves, healing the injured and clearing these areas of dangerous predators. They were also known to leave way-caches of food and supplies along these trails.
In urban areas, they set up temples with the aim of strengthening dwarven populations through healing, religious ceremonies and exchange of information. Sometimes they attempted to gain minor political positions to influence the government of non-dwarven cities.
They prayed for their spells in the morning and celebrated numerous holidays throughout the year, including each festival day and the following nine days of each festival. Years featuring Shieldmeet saw much celebration, with the public, including non-dwarves, being invited to attend.
Volamtar frequently also specialized as divine champions and fighters, while those in the wilderness often had some ranger skills.
In the Outlands a sprawling, richly decorated and well-staffed temple of Marthammor stood within The Ladys Ward of the city of Sigil.