Nar demonbinders were masters of summoning demons who maintained the black magic traditions of Narfell.
The empire of Narfell achieved power thanks to the magic of its mages and priest-lords, though its conjuring of demons ultimately led to its collapse. Nevertheless, even over a millennium later, by the 14 century DR, spellcasters continued to delve into forgotten vaults and ruins seeking lost Nar lore and secrets. Scholars of high principles sought it so that they might better battle demons, but the reckless and immoral only desired the power and dark knowledge.
Nar demonbinders were usually clerics, sorcerers, and wizards, as a fair amount of skill with magic was demanded and only they knew the spells needed to summon and command fiends. Specifically, they needed to know one of the summon monster spells and to focus on conjuration magic.
They were also required to speak Abyssal and to have a deep knowledge of planar lore. Furthermore, to deal with their demons, they needed a little skill in sensing deceit and more in intimidating them, and an iron will to resist them.
A Nar demonbinder learned a narrow but powerful suite of arcane spells, casting them spontaneously as sorcerers did. They commanded spells of fire and the summoning, binding, and banishment of planar beings. In particular, with inimical casting, a demonbinder could change the effects of alignment-based spells to turn aside the attacks of opposing outsiders, whatever their own alignment. A demonbinder could turn dispel good into dispel evil, dispel chaos, or dispel law their magic circle against good the same way a blasphemy as a holy word, word of chaos, or dictum and an unholy aura as a holy aura, cloak of chaos, or shield of law.
See Nar demonbinder spells
Demonbinders could call forth a fiendish familiar, either an imp or a quasit. As normal, it was linked to them in various ways and required a day-long ceremony to summon.
A demonbinder learned to craft a unique token called an "iron sign". This took three days and magical materials worth 1000 gp. It was the size of a large amulet and just had to be placed on an appropriate surface to function. It had two functions. First, it could serve as a ready-made calling diagram in a magic circle with a dimensional anchor for the purposes of a planar binding, and it kept a called planar creature within  of it in the same way for a number of days. Unless physically moved, it could not be disrupted and the called creature could not disturb it in any way. Second, the demonbinder could try compel a nearby free outsider to move into this space and become trapped. The iron sign crumbled to dust when the trapped creature left (either at the demonbinders permission or its own ingenuity) or its time expired.
Later, the demonbinder could make a "brazen sign", over five days and costing 2000 gp. This worked the same way, but was more effective, as the creatures resistance to spells did not apply. Finally, they could make a "silver sign", over seven days and costing 5000 gp. This made it harder for the creature to escape and prevented its attacks and powers reaching outside the area.
A demonbinder became a master summoner, becoming better able to compel or trap planar creatures called via a planar binding.
Later, their spells could more easily penetrate the defenses of any outsider, thanks to the demonbinders long study of such creatures and the sureness of their magic.
At their pinnacle, a demonbinders destructive spells bore a baleful energy, with half of it coming from infernal power that could not be resisted by other magic. Their flame strike was even entirely infernal power and could not be resisted at all.
* Clymph, thought to be a Nar demonbinder, builder of the demon-infested Clymph Tower in the Rawlinswood of the Great Dale in the , and slain by his demons two years later.
* Jesanta Beril, a Nar demonbinder and cleric to Talona both, she learned the ancient ways of the demonbinders from the Balor Fareeansis that wandered the Cold Lands under the guise of a sage called Benedict.