A pestkillerDemihumans of the Realms states in its introduction that the "pestkiller" kit was partially a fusion of the "pest controller" and "vermin slayer" kits from The Complete Book of Dwarves. It also lists many skill proficiencies that were introduced in The Complete Book of Dwarves. was a professional expert in combating all manner of creatures considered vermin.
The standard priorities of any pestkiller on the job The study of live specimens was also necessary in order to devise effective poison powders. Some pestkillers were known to develop a peculiar sort of empathy and understanding towards certain vermin after extensive studying, though this never kept them from eliminating the pest.
For pests of small size and base intelligence, pestkillers designed and baited specialized traps for around 1 to 4 gold pieces.
The typical animals considered "vermin" that pestkillers fought against ranged from all manner of arthropods (like centipedes and millipedes), arachnids (scorpions and spiders), bats, small lizards, rats, snakes, weasels and giant weasels. They also were known to combat more monstrous creatures and certain pestering humanoids, such as carrion crawlers, jermlaines, kobolds, mites, rot grubs, all types of fungi and oozes, and other ameboid creatures.
The life of a pestkiller was typically taken up by the small, industrious demihuman races of Faerûn, namely hairfeet, rock gnomes, shield dwarves, and stout halflings.
By the 14 century DR, pestkillers had been a staple of many large cities all across Faerûn, such as Calimport and Neverwinter. They were also common in the cities along the Sea of Fallen Stars, as ships had a tendency to track rats into their port-cities. Beneath the surface, dwarf and gnome strongholds relied upon pestkillers yearly to combat the creatures of the Underdark, as well as any vermin that stowed away in their food stores or trade goods.
Their line of work inevitably lead pestkillers to become experts in navigating city sewers and urban dungeons, or the varied tunnels and passageways of the stronghold they inhabited.
While most were content with their profession, some pestkillers were enamored by the excitement of adventuring. Such individuals would aid adventuring companies in delving into vermin-infested dungeons or act as guides for those heading into subterranean areas in which they lived.
Despite the essential work pestkillers provided society, few people were truly aware of the vast knowledge that they had. They were typically considered lower class, with few having any respect for them. This could even be the case among dwarves, as shield dwarf pestkillers often trimmed their beards short, which in turn made them perceived as having a lower status in the eyes of their fellow dwarves.
A pestkiller was typically defined by their proficiency in capturing underground pests with traps,
Pestkillers were skilled in navigating and fighting in the constricted passageways and tunnels created by many kinds of vermin.
Beyond their varied repertoire of skills, pestkillers were noted for building up an immunity to the various natural poisons and venoms produced by the monsters, insects, reptiles, snakes, spiders, and other vermin that they regularly faced. However, this tolerance did not extend to manufactured poisons, such as those that were commonly used by assassins. Their extended exposure to the unsanitary environments vermin were found in also made pestkillers uniquely resilient towards many common infections, parasites, and non-magical diseases.
The outfit of a pestkiller was often dirty and odorous, but made of durable material. Boots were considered a necessity, gloves and hand wrappings were common, and extra padding was often added to their elbows and knees to cushion them when crawling. Bandanas were a common accessory among dwarves. Belts and other forms of straps were never used, as they ran the risk of getting snagged in the narrow environs that pestkillers frequented.
If armor was ever needed, pestkillers would opt for something light, allowing them a granter range of movement. If their armor was loose, a baggy tunic would be worn over top to mitigate the chance of it snagging on projections in narrow passages and to muffle noise. Armor would be paired with a thick leather helmet, fastened down over the head, and occasionally outfitted with a metal plate to guard against attacks in crawlspaces.
In terms of weaponry, pestkillers utilized many of the same tools as rogues, as well as blowguns, hand axes, short bows, warhammers, They also were known to manufacture poison powders of their own design, tailored to a specific vermin. These were most effective against "cleanup crew" monsters, like green slimes and rot grubs. Making this powder took 3 to 12 days and cost around 10 to 100 gp in supplies that could easily be acquired within any large city in the Realms.
In contrast to those who took up the life of a giant-killer, their choice of study left pestkillers deficient in combating giants, giant-kin, ogres, ogre magi, and trolls.