| used-by   = Cleric
| source    = 
| rules     = 2 ed. (Al-Qadim)
Ragarran priests were specialized outland priests who worshiped the savage Zakharan goddess Ragarra.Ragarran priest was a cleric class kit for the Al-Qadim setting.
Though males could certainly become Ragarran priests, the hierarchy was dominated by females. Similarly most Ragarran priests were Zakharans though other races were represented to a lesser effect as well.
The primary role of all Ragarran priests was to increase the power and worship of their goddess. This task was of the utmost importance as of 1367 DR since the followers of Ragarra had diminished greatly since the rise of the empire of Kadar.
Ragarran priests were most powerful and comfortable within the jungle, but the need to recruit more followers drove them toward the more civilized lands of the Cities of the Ancients. Ragarran priests despised civilization and used their unique powers to destroy all aspects of it whenever possible.
Since Ragarra made no restrictions in the shedding of blood, her priests were allowed to carry and use bladed weapons. Most Ragarran priests wore light armor and some even carried a shield.
All Ragarran priests were quite adept in the art of disguise, a skill which suited their role well when infiltrating civilization. Their inherent roguish nature also made them more skilled with weaponry commonly used by thieves when compared to priests of other religions.
Since Ragarra was a goddess closely bound with nature, all of her priests could pass through any natural surrounding without leaving a trace.
Ragarran priests could speak with animals for extended periods of time when in natural surroundings, similar to the spell, on a daily basis.
Ragarran priests could summon and command bats and crocodiles when in the jungle or other forests. Once summoned, these creatures followed the priest for a full day.
More powerful priests could summon and command giant crocodiles or mobats.
Ragarra also granted her priests access to several unique spells.
The strongest of Ragarras priests could undertake a special ceremony where they were transformed into powerful creatures known as greater segarrans.
The very nature of Ragarra demanded that all of her followers be evil individuals.