A runecaster was a divine spellcaster who knew of the particular advantages of rune magic. Runecasters used magic and a special alphabet to create runes, which were symbols that possess magical effects that were both powerful and capable of being used multiple times. Although rune magic was originally created by the dwarves and giants millennia ago, its practice eventually became available to other races. The Thunder Blessing in particular spread this form of magic quite effectively as young dwarves brought their particular skills out into the wider world.
Runecasters used their runes generally for defensive purposes such as preventing unwanted intruders from entering a particular corridor, protecting a relic, or otherwise deter others from undesirable actions. Applications included protecting temples, trapping poacher trails, and enhancing the capabilities of an otherwise understrength defensive emplacement. 
The actual method to activate a rune depended on the will of the runecaster. Methods of activation included permanent activation, activation upon being touched, and activation upon being read. The last activation method was particularly noteworthy due to the fact that few people considered the act of reading to be of any negative consequence. This activation method could be further restricted if the runecaster wished. A particular race, physical appearance, or alignment could all be determining factors in a runes activation. A password or phrase could also be included to prevent accidental activation of a rune. 
Due to their cultural customs giants rarely shared the secrets of their rune magic with outsiders, though it did occur on occasion. All giants had some inherent affinity for rune magic, with the exception of Voadkyn and hill giants. The former were ignorant of the practice due to having branched away from giant society so quickly, while the latter were simply not intelligent enough to properly wield it.
Runecasting A runecaster could create a rune, which possesses a predetermined magical effect. As the runecaster became more experienced, he or she could create a rune that could be triggered multiple times.
Maximize Rune A runecaster could create a rune that had the Maximize Spell effect on it.
Runechant A runecaster could sketch a rune symbol in the air to enhance a divine spell he was casting.
Following the Thousand Year War, the god Annam All-Father quested for some way to bolster the might of the giants. Around a thousand years later he won the secrets of rune magic in Mechanus by beating a high-ranking modron in a game of lots. Following this, the first runecasters in the world were the giant progenitors Nicias and Vilmos, who over the course of hundreds of years spread the secret of this magic to apprentices.