Shami-Amourae was a demon lord who once claimed the title Queen of the Succubi.
Shami-Amourae always appeared as an exceedingly attractive,  succubus with white skin and golden hair. She always took a female form, never a male form.
She had the various normal abilities of succubi and divine beings, and was recorded as being able to charm monster, clairvoyance, darkness, 15 radius, energy drain, and trap the soul at will. She could also summon servitors of hers at will from the Abyss, alter how attractive someone appeared, and could cast wish every two days.
She had, in the past, warred with such rival deities as Aphrodite, Hanali Celanil, Ishtar, and Hera. She had had tenuous alliances with Pan and Tlazolteotl, and an uneasy truce with Pazuzu, for she did not like his claim on the skies over her Abyssal stronghold.
She had also been the lover of Demogorgon.
She required her female clerics to be only just above average attractiveness, while her male clerics had to be well above average in looks. Humans, half-elves, elves, and halflings were all known to be clerics of her. They were required to never knowingly aid followers of Hanali Celanil, Aphrodite, Ishtar, or Hera. Her cult, the Disciples of Delight, sacrificed attractive human, elven, or half-elven men to her once a month, on the night of the full moon.
Shami-Amourae was one of the first succubi, and was said to have originally been an early intelligent creature on the Material plane that, upon death, became a larva, then a quasit, and then a succubus. In truth though, she was born fully-formed from the Abyss, alongside her sisters Malcanthet, Lynkhab, and Xinivrae. She and her three sisters were all rivals for the Razor Throne of Shendilavri and the title of Queen of the Succubi.
She caught the eye of Demogorgon, and became his consort, but he eventually spurned her in favor of Malcanthet when she told him that Shami-Amourae had been manipulating his two personalities for her own gain. He and Malcanthet captured her, infested her with a chokesnake named Molypente, and trapped her in The Well of Debased Eros on the 73rd layer of the Abyss known as the Wells of Darkness.