Shargaas ( tall, ebony-skinned orc with jet-black eyes that seemed to glow an unholy light when in the darkness. He dressed in all black and wore a dark cloak.
Shargaas was known to manifest his presence as an enveloping darkness, or a pair of eyes as pitch black eyes that floated in the air. He also sent omens in the form of sudden chills in the air, moans of lamentation, and his dreaded and painful "cold fevers".
Secretive, murderous, He was more cunning than even the general Ilneval, However, the Night Lords hatred of non-orcs went deeper than that, and was rooted in a basic hatred for life itself in his glowing eyes, the orcs were little more than useful implements for killing that he would eventually discard once they outlived their usefulness.
His hatred of life extended to divine life as well, for Shargaas despised all other deities. Shargaas hated even his own life, and spent much of his time bemoaning his very existence, striking out (typically after careful consideration) at anyone who made it more unbearable, which included practically everyone in existence.
The strength of Shargaass avatars was significantly impacted by the level of light in the area. They could see perfectly in absolute or magical darkness for over a mile but were completely blinded in sunlight. In total darkness, they resisted about half of the magic used against them, whereas they resisted on a fourth when in partial light and were completely vulnerable to it when in daylight. If in partial light or darkness, he could hide within the shadows and become nigh impossible to spot, and it was said that when he walked upon the earth that he could hide himself and his followers such that no mortals could detect them.
Shargaas could cast darkness at will, enervation three times each day, and command undead as if he was an incredibly powerful cleric. He could also climb any surface without slipping, even if it was perfectly smooth.
Shargaass cloak was a magical one that protected him from harm and allowed him to cast cone of cold once each day. He also employed an enchanted quarterstaff.
The Night Lords realm was known as the Night Below, a seemingly infinite series of tunnels and caverns that twisted in all directions, inside and out, and sometimes over and around each other. In the Great Wheel, it was located on the fourth layer of Gehenna, Krangath, although disinformation spread by Shargaass minions led to reports claiming that it was on the fiery second layer or cold and acidic third.
The layers of Gehenna were finite (although larger than any known landmass on the Material Plane) and yet Shargaass realm simultaneously seemed to contain more space than all of Krangath could hold, while not comprising the entire mount. It was thought by some that Shargaass realm extended beyond Krangath, reaching into the caverns in all worlds at the cold areas associated only with frigid temperatures, spots that Shargaas could supposedly see and reach through to grab someone at his leisure.
In the World Tree and World Axis models, the Night Below was in Nishrek, a natural setting twisted to fit orc ideals. Ravaged by eternal war and ceaseless carnage, entire orc tribes fought across its black seas, tangled forests, jagged badlands, and burning deserts when not preparing for future bloodshed from inside the fortresses and trenches that dotted the terrain. In this bleak, bloody realm, the gigantic cavern system that was the Night Below was still separate from Gruumshs Iron Fortress.
Regardless, the name "Night Below" was more than symbolism and no matter the power or magical nature of light brought there, it could only illuminate a  area. Even infravision failed in the Night Below, although the darkness magnified ones other senses, with sound and smell becoming extremely important. For those not blessed by Shargaas, this was a horrid curse, as they found their armor jingling, weapons clanking, storage containers creaking, and even the slightest sounds reverberating throughout the realm. Most had to actively will themselves to move faster due to the greater acuity with which they heard their own noises.
For those who were blessed by Shargaas however (including his petitioners) the Night Belows qualities were exceptional boons. Those going through the tunnels could move silently with rarely the slightest shuffle betraying their skulking, and could easily mask their scents from others. In addition, only the devoted servitors of Shargaas and the Night Lord himself could see in the dark within the Night Below, with all of them possessing a sort of blindsight.
Anyone blindly stumbling through the realm attracted orcs like flies drew in spiders, and light was sure to draw the attention of many, though only one would normally appear before the intruders. The rest (at least nine more and up to ninety-nine) were hidden in the shadows ready to strike, preferably from behind. The Night orcs, as they were known, were brutal and petty beings taken from the most wicked of Shargaass mortal followers. They spent their afterlives in a desperate bid for Shargaass approval, and killed anyone without a good enough reason to be there (with most reasons being insufficient). There were also rumors of other creatures in the Night Below, though the orcs surely knew about them and likely controlled them.
The main towns in the Night Below were in the larger caverns, but even the most sizable strongholds only contained around 3000 individuals since the realm was big enough there was no need to pack together. The major town was known as Cold Fever (after one of Shargaass punishments) and was just as inhospitable as the rest of the realm, although if one was lucky they might find a guide to take them there (not that theyd be safe even once they got to the realm). Shargaass Audience, his citadel, was at the center of town, although one that didnt belong was more likely to die before reaching it.
Only those looking to hire assassins or thieves received any kind of welcome, as the Night orcs rightly prided themselves on being some of the best of both. They had near unrivaled knowledge of their trade—poison, accidents, and other matters of murder— if one was willing to pay the exorbitant price. Some also went to Cold Fever for information about the rumored layers of Gehenna below Krangath, (which if they existed only Shargaas knew about) but those who went for such reasons never returned and likely ended up in his undead army.
Shargass only sent out avatars when he was concerned with a conflict between orcs and other underground races, such as dwarves or gnomes. He sought to spark war underground in order to obtain corpses for animation.
Shargaas hated all beings, not all of them equally, and his choice to ally with the other orc deities, who he tried to manipulate into serving his own despicable ends, was a purely pragmatic one. In particular he maintained a cold alliance with Yurtrus, the mouthless orc deity of death and disease, who silently backed Shargaas in his efforts to subtly counterbalance the warmongering influence Gruumsh, Bahgtru, and Ilneval. Ilneval loathed the two of them for their underhanded and cowardly approached, but the War-Maker was smart enough to utilize both their skillsets effectively when fighting other pantheons. Conversely, Shargaas secretly revealed the ambitious lieutenants treacheries to Gruumsh to undermine him while cementing his own position in the pantheon.
Gruumsh didnt always look kindly on subterfuge and sabotage given that the traditional orc way of getting what one wanted was to do so directly. However, even the One-Eyed God found Shargaass secretive services needed from time to time, and despite wanting to ignore the eternal war between orcs and goblins, Shargaas had little choice but to give him assistance. At Gruumshs command, Shargaas would send teams of assassins to "dispose" of generals in the goblinoid forces before withdrawing so far into his realm not even Gruumsh himself could contact him for over a year. Shargaas was dangerous to all beings but Gruumsh, but the Night Lord still regarded the pantheon leader with vengeful hatred for all the indignity he put him through.
To express this hatred towards Gruumsh, Shargaas heaped abuse on his favorite proxy, Turgren the Half-Blind, so called because he was blind in one eye. Despite bearing no personal hatred towards Turgren, the sight of the orc reminded him of his bitter experiences with Gruumsh, so he nonetheless mistreated the unfortunate servant. Turgren abused anyone lesser then him, whether they were an actual subordinate or complete stranger, in turn, using his skills in physical and mental torment.
Outside his own pantheon, Shargaas was without allies, though his enmity for the dwarf, gnome, and goblin gods was greater than any other loathing.
right|A Red Fang bat-rider of Shargaas scales a tower.
Shargaas was worshiped as the patron of orcish (including half-orcs) bandits and thieves, and any among their kind that did their wicked work under the cover of darkness.
According to the dogma of Shargaas, the darkness was cold and everlasting, but the mantle of the black night provided cover for a hidden blade. The Night Lord was considered the patron of Underdark orc tribes, his own clans always dwelling underground, and it was the duty of his followers to eliminate all other races, and especially to go into the deepest tunnels and wage war against those intruding upon Shargaass domain.
Much like with Gruumsh and Shargaas, the cultists of the Night Lord were sometimes called upon by orc chieftans to perform specific tasks when faced with foes that could withstand direct assaults, accepting payment in food, tools, or slaves in exchange for  performing assassinations, thefts, kidnappings and other acts of sabotage.
Despite being despised by most other orcs, the secret society of Shargaas was a dangerous hidden force in most tribes, for one of their mandates was, while silent and unseen, to cull the weak. While most Shargaasan followers were forced to dwell far from the others, others remained with the main body, hiding their true affiliation while posing as ordinary warriors. These secret agents singled out the weakest warriors to strengthen the tribe as a whole and removed them based on the logic that a chain was only as strong as its weakest link.
right|The unholy symbol of Shargaas.
Shargaasan clerics prayed for spells at midnight, when darkness shrouded the world. The major holy days of Shargaas occurred during the new moon, when the sky was clouded and dark. Services in honor of the Night Lord cold be done anywhere, but during the monthly new moon ceremony, a grim event known as the Chant in the Abiding Darkness, the clergy of the Night Lord gathered under the dark sky to honor the Stalker Below.
Sacrifices to Shargaas took the form of stolen items, with supplicants to the faith being required to offer something during the Chant that was of great value to its original owner (preferably an enemys heart). Afterwards, the assembled clergy would chant a series of ritualistic prayers, pledging their service to the Blade in the Darkness as his silent and deadly weapons.