A silverstar was a specialty priest of Selûne the Moonmaiden. They were warrior priests armed with much moon-related magic.
These followers of the Moonmaiden defended the weak and the oppressed and they would not stand slavery. They worked to cultivate harmony among both lycanthropes and other people.
Silverstars generally operated in either big cities by the coast that relied on the sea for food and trade, or on the edges of civilization, where lycanthropes were often found. However, they would not stay in one place for a great length of time, instead being grabbed by a new cause or mission or simple wanderlust, and would soon move on.
They were an elite group within the church of Selûne. Silverstars were devoted advocates of freedom and tolerance and were dedicated seekers of truth. They were considered to be close to the goddess.
They were thought to be "touched" with prophecy and they occasionally received visions from their goddess. They commanded lunar energy and some of the power of the moon in order to serve Selûnes aims on Toril.
They could wear any armor and wield any bludgeoning weapon, but they favored the Moons Hand, a smooth-headed mace.
Throughout history, Silverstars proved themselves to be proficient in astrology and navigation.
In the time of Netheril, silverstars were immune to maze, guards and wards, and other spells and effects that confused direction or cause one to get lost.
In the hands of a silverstar, a magical or even mundane Moons Hand mace was more accurate and more damaging, and harmed creatures that could only be hurt by enchanted weapons. Later on some silverstars learned to treat any heavy mace they wielded as a Moons Hand, transforming it into an enchanted weapon with shock and later shocking burst powers.
thumb|left|200px|A female silverstar healing an injured man in the late 15 century DR.
Many years before the Era of Upheaval, during the time of ancient Netheril, silverstars could cast spells such as protection from evil, locate object, locate creature, abjure, find the path, dream, holy word, and restoration or regenerate.
Circa the mid–14 century DR, Silverstars could cast certain bonus spells, namely starshine, moonbeam or lower/raise water, moon blade, moon path or true seeing, the latter of which was known as "prophets sight". After 1372 DR they could freely cast Moon domain spells, and finally received the moonfire spell.
Silverstars could also turn undead like other clerics, and were also granted infravision to . After 1372 DR, they instead received low-light vision, known as "lunar sight".
Veteran silverstars could launch shooting stars from a hand or their eyes, up to three per tenday, to a distance of . These glowing projectiles with tails of fire exploded on impact or at the end of their range and caused much damage over . After 1372 DR, they could only project small orbs of glowing lunar energy from their eyes. Referred to as the tears of Selûne, these motes were similar to dancing lights.
Also around that same time, senior silverstars learned to resist Shadow Weave magic with a power called "moonshield", becoming resistant to enchantments, illusions, and necromancy and against spells of darkness, whatever the source of the magic.
thumb|right|250px|Human and werebat silverstars, with the moon and Selûnes holy symbol in the background.
An experienced silverstar was not immune to lycanthropy, but they could take some control of the condition if infected. If the infecting lycanthrope was morally upstanding, without any care for ethical standing, or the moral and ethical outlook of that creature was in line with that of the silverstar, then the priest or priestess of Selûne became a natural lycanthrope, rather than an afflicted one. In those cases, the silverstar could control their transformations, and thanks to the blessing of Selûne, they were not vulnerable to silver weaponry. However, any transformed being that turned to evil could not remain a silverstar. Furthermore, their memory in their animal or hybrid forms remained intact in their humanoid forms.
They were utterly opposed to the machinations of Selûnes twin sister, Shar, and her followers. They despised most kinds of undead.
A being of any race could become a silverstar, but they were required to be reasonably wise and hardy In the time of Netheril, they could be any good alignment, but in the 14 century DR they were required specifically to be chaotic good.
They needed to be capable in battle, especially in the dark or when unable to see, and to master a combat style based around dodging and making mobile attacks. They should be skilled in finding their way and in scrutinizing the motives of others. They also needed the ability for divine magic clerics needed access to the Moon domain. Most began as clerics, others as rangers.
The clergy of the House of the Moon temple in Waterdeep counted at least 50 silverstars among its number around 1370 DR, with senior members often becoming silverstars. Two high-ranking silverstars were guarding the Wand of Four Moons here at all times.
* Feluna Moonstar, a werecat silverstar at the House of the Moon
* Naneatha Suaril, high priestess of the House of the Moon
* Sferia Ranul, a drow Silverstar from the city of Silverymoon and the leader of the Sisters of the Blood Moon adventuring group circa 1310 DR.