Skerrit was the god of the centaurs and satyrs who venerated neutrality, symbolic of the guiding, harmony-bringing hand of the forces of nature. The Forest Walker was the hunter and protector of the sylvan lands, watching over the woodland communities and always aspiring to maintain the natural balance.
Skerrits avatar was a strong,  long male centaur with chestnut-brown hair. He was garbed in a chainmail that changed its color according to the deitys whims.
To his clerics, Skerrit manifested himself as forest creatures that behaved unusually during the customary mock hunts that his priests participated in. The centaur god could temporarily possess forest creatures and plants to perform his will.
Skerrit was a benevolent, compassionate, and merciful deity, but nevertheless a strong and skilled hunter and protector. He maintained the equilibrium in the forests, allowing all forest creatures to fulfill their natural roles he fed the hunted and granted the hunters their prey.
Skerrits avatars had access to druidic divine magics and could polymorph self into any natural forest beast. He was capable of dashing thrice as fast as he normally could, but had to rest about twice as long as he ran afterwards.
Skerrits avatars were each armed with an enchanted golden +3 spear and a powerful enchanted +3 longbow with magical arrows.
In the Great Wheel cosmology, Skerrits realm was the part of the Happy Hunting Grounds.
The Glade consisted of a series of interconnected grasslands, meadows, and glades where Skerrit was served by spirits of centaurs and satyrs.
Skerrit was known to dispatch his avatars to aid centaurs threatened by servants of evil gods. The woodland deitys avatars sometimes acted as spies, patrolling the edges of his worshipers woods and warning fey and centaurs of incoming danger, though he seldomly involved his avatars in open conflicts.
Since most beings were wise enough to avoid the areas around deep sylvan forests, the peaceful and seclusive centaurs were suited to occupying these outer reaches. As such, Skerrit worked with the sylvan deities as the guardian of these borderlands, and in turn they provided the centaurs with faerie gifts and magic to defend their homes when needed. Skerrit was a close ally of Caoimhin, the demigod of killmoulis, and often dispatched his avatar to accompany and defend the demigods weaker avatar. 
Rillifane Rallathil, the elven deity of the woodlands, had the friendliest relationship with Skerrit among his fellow Seldarine gods, though Solonor Thelandira, a fellow god of hunt, was known to ally with him as well.
The centaur deity was on the best of terms with the Beast Lords, even though they clearly felt that the Lord of the Herds was calling their realm his home only temporarily.
In general, centaurs who desired to devote themselves to a higher calling became druids rather than clerics, but the rare few who did almost always worshiped Skerrit. The centaurs of Evermeet were an exception to this however, as they openly worshiped the sylvan protector god. His cult of worship was closely allied with the worship of the Seldarine.
Skerrits clergy often took on leadership roles in their communities and passed their mantles to their sons and — occasionally — daughters. Priests of Skerrit used their divine magics to offer protection to hunters who set out against dangerous monsters or enemies of the community, accompanied scouts who sought new home territory for the tribes, and presided over ritualistic dances and mock hunts dedicated to Skerrit.
Similarly to centaurs, satyrs hosted ceremonies dedicated to Hunter in the Green monthly, illuminated by the full-moon and blazing campfires. Many satyr communities, sometimes up to a dozen groups, assembled in secluded groves to participate in mock hunts, wrestling contests, and retellings of Skerrits hunting legends followed by a feast. The winners of these ritualistic contests were granted the title of Hunters and proudly held them unto the following months gathering. Unlike centaurs, satyrs did not have clerics of Skerrit.
Skerrits worshipers who cast the divine spell - weapon of the deity, summoned a magical +2 flaming shortspear to wield in battle.
Outside of Toril, Skerrit was worshiped by centaurs of Oerth.
The city of Drelagara of Evermeet had a small shrine to Skerrit.
Some sages believed that Skerrit was born out of a universe of pure thought that birthed some of the earliest deities. Object and concepts existed in that universe in their pure form and Skerrit, the first centaur, was created when two pure thought-forms melded together. Skerrit, in turn, created centaurs in his image.
*Tanglemane a centaur from Vilhon Reach and an ally of Arvin, the mond-mage, circa 1373 DR.