Solonor Thelandira () was the elven god of hunting, archery, and survival in wild and harsh places. He taught his followers the arts of hunting including archery, moving unseen, and hiding in the wild places. He watched over the borders of wilderness and farmed land and sought to maintain the balance between them. Solonor lived in the realm of Arvandor on the plane of Arborea.
Solonor manifested as a lean and muscular male elf clad in a cloak of leaves. Wolf, a Beast Totem Spirit worshiped by wild elves, was often depicted at the side of Solonor in religious iconography.
thumb|Holy symbol of Solonor Thelandira.
Solonor always kept his word and so did not offer it lightly. He often came across as grim due to the complexities of his duty, making compromises between those who wanted to exploit natures gifts and those who wished to preserve nature in an unaltered state.
Solonor could draw two special arrows of slaying from his quiver per day. First, he needed to touch his intended target, but then he could create this arrow that, should it hit, would instantly kill them unless they were a demigod or more powerful. If he could not touch his quarry it would be a regular arrow of slaying for the type of creature at which it was fired.
He was almost impossible to ambush, since he was aware of any being within 1,500 feet of him. He was also capable of turning any arrow shot at him back upon the firer, effectively making him immune to most missile attacks. In arboreal surroundings, Solonor could become both invisible and completely silent, leaving absolutely no trace of his passing unless he wanted to. Finally, Solonor was the best archer among all of the gods of Faerûn.
Solonor carried the magical elven longbow Longshot, which could fire as far as the horizon, accompanied by the Quiver of Endless Arrows that never emptied of magical ammunition. He also wore boots of varied tracks and a necklace of adaptation.
Solonors divine realm was called the Pale Tree and was located in the deepest, most dense part of Arvandors unspoiled woodlands. It was a huge tree, towering far above even neighboring redwoods, with white bark and silver leaves. Solonors petitioners lived among its boughs on platforms, with ropes placed among them for travel between them. Solonor himself spent very little time there. Elves believed that leaves taken from the tree had mystical powers and were therefore very valuable to them.
Solonor was never in one place long and he was always hunting some quarry or another. He hunted not to kill for killings sake, but to maintain the balance of nature and to destroy evil. He did not get close to his foes, but tracked and shot them from a distance.
Solonor was a well-respected member of the Seldarine, answering to Corellon Larethian. He counted as allies practically all good-aligned nature deities as well as Silvanus and several beast cults. Solonor was particularly close to Eilistraee and Mielikki, both of whom he has been said to be romantically linked with at some point. Solonor counted Malar and Talos as his worst foes, with Lolth earning the next greatest amount of his ire. Solonor also opposed the Unseelie Court, particularly the Queen of Air and Darkness, and any deity who would despoil nature.
thumb|A moon elf priest of Solonor Thelandira.
Solonors worshipers were invariably elves or half-elves of a natural bent, usually rangers, or other warriors who were particularly skilled at archery.