Spellscarred savants, sometimes called Spellplague disciples, were spellscarred individuals who had learned to harness the incredible power of their spellscars, allowing them to tap into the disruptive energies of the Spellplague as well as the raw power of spellfire.
Such individuals used their spellscars as weapons, making them among the strongest among the spellscarred. A spellscarred savant rejected the stigma or shame associated with having a spellscar, and instead regarded their scar as a powerful boon. Some would display their scars openly as a badge of honor or as a warning to their foes.
Only those who had the mental discipline and the courageous willingness to study their spellscar and the Spellplague could become a spellscarred savant.
Spellscarred savants learned to familiarize themselves with the Spellplague in order to gain mastery over it, and thus gained the ability to bend these infamously chaotic powers to their will. While an ordinary spellscarred individual was vulnerable to the power of the Spellplague and of plaguechanged creatures, spellscarred savants learned not only to overcome the weaknesses to these energies, but to gain power over them.
As they grew in mastery, spellscarred savants gained the ability to tap into raw spellfire, which they could use to heal and empower themselves. Some used this power to expand the arsenal of attacks and powers arising from their spellscar while others used it to develop a remarkable immunity to fire. These savants came to regard mundane fire almost as a toy, and could freely extinguish or heal any fire on their person.
With continued practice, spellscarred savants came to be able to use spellfire to recharge their spellscars powers, and as they gained mastery over their spellfire, they were said to wield the raw essence of magic as easily as a warrior wielded a sword. Such masters could incinerate their foes to ash and could replicate the powers of nearby arcane spellcasters.
Spellscarred savants only appeared following the outbreak of the Spellplague in the . By the , Spellplague disciples would be sought out by the Order of Blue Flame in order to recruit them as potential accordants.