Stormlords were special prestige priests devoted to Talos, the Destroyer, who enjoyed wanton destruction.
Stormlords composed the majority of Taloss faithful within his church. They were almost always in charge of their own cell of followers.
They spent much of their lives as hedonistic brigands, giving in to their cravings for random violence and destruction whilst enjoying wealth, luxury, and wanton pleasures. The more cunning stormlords posed as madmen, spreading the dogma of Talos whilst secretly seeking out prized targets that they would attack.
Talos demanded that each stormlord called forth a storm or engaged in an equally destructive act of violence in his honor around once a tenday.
Most stormlords were clerics or druids of the Destroyer, though it was not unheard of them possessing sorcerous abilities or barbarous rage.
These individuals were naturally resistant to the extreme heat or cold of the climate they inhabited, making it impossible for them to perish from exposure even if completely naked and wet. Stormlords could walk through any natural fire without harm, though the same did not apply to any equipment they carried. Every stormlord was completely immune to all forms of lightning or other electricity, both magical and natural. As they gained strength, stormlords had access to a variety of powers that could be used on a daily basis including shocking grasp, call lightning, control winds, lightning bolt, and control weather. Extremely powerful stormlords could create an earthquake once every tenday. All stormlords could walk on water at will.
After the , stormlords focused on wielding spears or javelins, and could augment these weapons with shocking and thundering qualities. Some stormlords could inflict particularly grievous wounds with their favored weapons.
They were protected from electrical currents and lightning, and could safely walk and even fly through storms. 
The most powerful stormlords could even summon forth groups of elementals, one each of fire, earth, air and water and transform themselves to take their form.
Stormlords were able to use any form of bludgeoning weapon like typical priests, as well as javelins, and later spears. They did not have restrictions on the type of armor they could wear.
* Elort Rhomsivin