A swashbuckler was a graceful and sophisticated individual who focused on honing their skill with a blade and demonstrating poise in one–on–one combat. They seemed to always attract danger and trouble, as well as the ire of other rogues who sought to best their abilities.
These individuals often lived by their own rules, governed by a unique sense of moral principles. They often sought out adventure on the open seas, living as privateers or corsairs. They were considered to be the epitome of confidence and daring in battle.
Swashbucklers were often romantics as heart, seeking passion both in adventure as well as in the company of others.
These rogues were among the most charming and debonair as could be found throughout the lands. While they were seemingly always ready with a droll comment or witty remark, they usually came across as endearing and well within acceptable manners.
In battle, swashbucklers moved nimbly in and out of battle, taking deft and precise actions. They were quite adept at harrying their foes with quick attacks while avoiding any parries or reprisals. As such the most skilled and expert swashbucklers were considered to be among the Realms finest duelists.
Swashbucklers typically wielded blades in battle, They eschewed heavy armor and preferred the opportunity to be light on their feet.
The stylish constructs known as nimblewrights were designed to look and fight like swashbucklers.
A swashbuckler deftly swinging from the ropes of a ship.
Unlike others swashbucklers, drow were known to fight dirty and win by any means necessary. These drow duelists were considered among the finest of the Realms, many of whom were recruited to Bregan Daerthe.
* Dauravyn Redbeard, a retired adventurer who went on to run The Way Inn on the Sword Coast.
* Jarlaxle Baenre, the legendary drow criminal mastermind and secret ruler of Luskan.
* Vevette Blackwater, one of the high-ranking officers within the reformed Zhentarim.
The ideal of the swashbuckler was widely romanticized by many individuals, greatly adding to their charming appeal.