Lord of the Green Mantle
Thard Harr ( tall dwarf with dark skin covered by tattoos. When looking upon the potbellied, feral-looking creature, naked but for his long beard and thick, matted tufts of hair covering his torso, few would suspect Thard Harr to be a member of the Morndinsamman. Hiding his face was an ornate copper helm fashioned in the shape of a crocodile head and festooned with dangling teeth the Disentangler had supposedly torn from his kills.
Thard rarely spoke, but had been known to purr, growl, snarl, and roar like a great cat. He was an emotional being prone to vast mood swings and grand gestures, and had zero tolerance for pretentiousness, social restraint, or civilized ways of any kind.
Once per day, Thard Harr could breathe out a spicy, greenish-blue gas that prevented the unleashing or activation of spells or magic items for the next nine minutes, though current magic still continued to function, but couldnt be altered in behavior, strength, or target. Thard had a special empathy with the beasts of the jungle they never attacked him, and so long as an outside force wasnt controlling them, he could mentally command any within  of him, expressing his intent perfectly.
Thard was immune to charms, illusions, and had no sense of fear. The Disentangler couldnt be restrained by holding magic, webs, adhesive, shrubbery, vines, or jaws, and could feather fall any distance. He was immune to poisons and unenchanted weapons, and even if struck was oblivious to pain, able to reattach his severed or torn off limbs as if he was a troll.
Thard Harrs manifestations involved a low, continuous thudding and sounds of snarling, seemingly emanating from the beings he empowered. The sounds could not be stopped and the entity he empowered (a gift he could grant by touch) would glow with a crawling, pulsing nimbus of cherry-red light. While imbued with the Thards power, which would last for about ten minutes, the being in question (either a wild dwarf or beast of the jungle) would gain access to special powers.
Empowered wild dwarves would be filled with energy and rapidly recover from injury. They tossed their weapons aside to fight with their hands, which would transform into rending talons known as the "Claws of Thard Harr" or "Claws of the God". Empowered beasts, would become immune to entanglement, natural or otherwise, unable to be charmed, tricked by illusions, or otherwise mentally influenced, and would become fearless, fighting to the death for wild dwarves regardless of fire, magic, the size of opposition or the ferocity demonstrated by their foes.
Thard Harr made clear his favor when one discovered gems like diamonds, emeralds, gold, or green spinels, and in items like metal weapons, calantra wood carvings and zaiantar wood rods. He demonstrated his displeasure when precious gems shattered, accompanied by the unseen roar of some great beast, when the target of his wrath got tripped and tangled in vines, or by causing items to degenerate, such as metal rusting, wood rotting, and leather decaying.
Thard Harr wore scaled, adamantine gauntlets ending in jointed, razor-sharp claws strapped to his forearms at the elbow (as high as they reached). Though the wild dwarves sometimes spoke of opponents or forces so powerful or dangerous that they might "blunt the claws of Harr himself", they never alluded to the claws being broken, for they were supposedly unbreakable.
Thard Harrs home in the Outer Planes was called the Forbidden Plateau, a heavily forested location that, much like Chult, was swarming with dinosaurs. 
Though Thard Harr "lived" on the Forbidden Plateau, he was said to have no permanent home he loved to wander all three layers of the Beastlands, stalking, hunting, running, and otherwise interacting with the many animals there as one of them rather than living apart from them. Given his preference for roaming that plane, he rarely appeared in the Realms, preferring to aid his worshipers through manifestation rather than direct appearance.
He protected the jungle dwarves from beasts and outlanders alike, often manifesting in one dwarf at a time during the same conflict so that trespassers would have to fight one empowered dwarf after another. He never helped the same dwarf for more than an hour a day, but sometimes granted aid in separate visits (whether appearing before them or through manifestations) to make up the hour total if the threat was persistent.
While Thard Harr undoubtedly shared the blood of Moradin he was emotionally and geographically estranged from the rest of the Morndinsamman. His relations with the others were friendly,  but practically nonexistent, and on the rare occasions the entire pantheon was brought together, he alienated the others more than anything else, especially as a result of him communicating through strange animal calls and physical gestures.
Moradin was still his superior, but the Disentangler didnt have a close relationship with him. Abbathor wasnt Thards explicit foe, nor was he an ally, though the duergar deities Laduguer and Deep Duerra were definitely enemies of his. The only dwarves that interacted with Thard on a regular, but still infrequent basis was Sharindlar and Dumathoin, the former being interested in the jungles rampant fertility and the latter for the Chultan dwarves that fell into his purview and who occasionally came into contact with their wild dwarf kin.
right|Ubtao building the city of Mezro, while his friend Thard Harr looks on.
The Lord of the Jungle Deeps greatly preferred the company of nature deities as opposed to that of his relatives, having made allies and enemies with the other inhabitants, past and present, of South Faerûns jungles. Other notable allies of Thard included the couatl god Jazirian, Nobanion the Lion King, and Uthgar of the Savage Frontiers Uthgardt barbarians. The halfling goddess Cyrrollalee and the gnome god Baervan Wildwanderer, were also allies of his, and though not actual deities, Thard had forged close relationships with many of the Beastlands Animal Lords. 
At the same time, Thard was the sworn enemy of many jungle deities and demons that went unnoticed by Faeruns more civilized inhabitants. His most notable foe was Shar, who had absorbed an aspect of Ubtao to operate in Chult under the name of the shadow deity Eshowdow. and Khurgorbaeyag, who led the jungle goblins known as the batiri as the ankylosaurus Kuro. Thard opposed the goblinoid pantheon in general, as well as the gnomish god of greed Urdlen.
left|215px|Thards symbol
Priests of Thard, regardless of gender, could never cut their beards, instead having to braid them into ropes and tie them around their waists and shoulders. Only if the priest themselves chose to cut the hair would there be an issue, it being a sign they were turning from Thard and that they could no longer expect his assistance. Like normal wild dwarves they rarely wore clothing, their hair sufficing for this purpose. Exceptions to this included a beast helm, the skull of a large jungle animal like a rhinoceros, great cat, or giant crocodile, and the pelts or skins of jungle monsters, which would be worn as robes for ceremonial purposes.
Priests of Thard covered their bodies with tattoos and bore their holy symbol in tattoo form, usually on one shoulder on on their overgrown scalps. In cases where they would normally present their holy symbols, they could simply cross their forearms at the wrists several inches in front of their chests.
Their bodies were also often covered in grease to make them difficult to hold onto and to keep insects away from them, and when going to war they plastered their hair and bodies with mud that, when combined with the grease, became a crude but useful form of armor. They favored metal tools and weapons if possible, but would otherwise use clubs, fists and the Claws of the God.
Thard Harr sponsored no formal temples, and rarely did the holy sites he did possess incorporate buildings, carved caves, or other artificial structures. Instead, the Disentangler was worshiped in remote sanctuaries of nature, his followers taught to treat locations of astounding natural beauty and abundant life as gathering places for reverence. Deep in the heart of Chults jungles were his most common holy sites soaring cliffs, deep gorges, natural caverns, volcanic mud flats, hot springs, great waterfalls, and untamed gardens.
Like the druid grove of North Faerun, these areas were strong in faith-based magic, and could often serve as a source for great and powerful mystic rites. Normally these places were overseen by up to a dozen of Thard Harrs priests who could call upon nearby wild dwarf tribes and nearby beasts to defend the sites.
Outside of the Chultan peninsula, Thard and the wild dwarves were regarded as little more than legend. Even the gold dwarves of South Faerun regarded him more as myth than anything else, but long ago he was more tightly tied to the other dwarven subraces.
Back in the days of Shanatar, Thard Harr was venerated by deep-dwelling shield dwarves as the Lord of the Green Mantle, god of the forest above and dwarven god of nature. By the time High Shanatar the concept of patron dwarven gods affiliated with individual kingdoms had passed, but it was nonetheless considered his domain. With the fall of High Shanatar, he was only remembered as a lost god in ancient dwarven tradition and the ancestral tales of a few gold dwarves, particularly those dwelling near High Shanatars ruins.
High above the Jungles of Chult was the Emerald Crater, the truncated cone of a shattered volcano completely overgrown with flora and overrun by fauna to a degree not seen even in most of Chults fertile tropics. While they only visited it rarely, since their stories taught it was a crime to hunt the life there, Thard himself was to have visited the beauteous place on several occasions, and part of the reason for its position in wild dwarven culture (normally such a place would be abandoned after a generation or two) was the presence of Esmerandanna.
The emerald dragon was a great wyrm that had lived in the crater since its creation in 77 DR and the sagacious entity had long been fascinated with wild dwarf customs and history. The Resplendent Queen, as she was known, had forged a bond of friendship with the disparate Thardite priests, having over the centuries overcome the paranoid impression typical to her kind that they planned to steal her treasures. The two parties had come to an agreement where the wild dwarves would come to the Emerald Crater to venerate Thard and she would guard their most sacred runestones and carvings that they recorded thee. The draconic protector was firmly woven into the wild dwarf mythos as the Daul (daughter) of Thard.
ThardClaws.png|Thards symbol from Demihuman Deities