Beshabas Bright SisterTyches Fair-Haired Daughter
Tymora () was the goddess of good luck in the Faerûnian pantheon and the second incarnation of the goddess of luck after her predecessor Tyche was split into her and Beshaba, goddess of bad luck.
Before the Time of Troubles, Tymora used to manifest in her avatar form, as a boyish, crafty-faced, tomboy with brunette hair. However, after surviving a foiled plot to steal her powers and merge with her sister, she changed her form into a tall, thin, almost boyish, yet graceful maiden with a regal face, blue-black eyes and long, flowing, unbound, platinum blond or silver hair adorned with a modest gold crown.
By 1489 DR, some tiefling followers of Tymora claimed to have received visions of her in their own image, describing her as the "dark, devilish lady of fortune". The tieflings argued that these visions meant the heart and soul meant more to the gods than appearance and bloodline.
When Tymora appeared, which was rare, she liked to take a form of a fit female, with an impish nose and long flowing white hair with a capricious lock that periodically danced on her forehead. She usually materialized barefoot and wore a blue robe with silver trim. She liked to appear as a member of whatever race the observer belonged to, which meant that each person could simultaneously see her as a member of their own race.
right|One of the priestesses of Tymora, Eressea Ambergyles.
250px|Tymoras symbol appearance during channeling of her power.
Shrines and temples of Tymora were as widespread as the needs of adventurers to be healed, which made the temples wealthy. These places of worship often differed significantly from each other in powers, manners, and titles though, with little overall authority or hierarchy. They were independent from each other, and each temple reflected the tastes of its high priestess or priest. The temples provided potions, scrolls, or other little things like glowstones, often as rewards to those who served Tymora and her tenets well. However, despite their differences, most of the Tymoran temples shared some traditions. The common item worn by all clergy of Lady Luck was the disk of Tymora, usually carried on a small chain and always prepared for the greeting rituals. Blue and silver colors were commonly seen on clerical dresses. The Church of Tymora didnt discriminate, and saw all races and sexes as equal in the eyes of Tymora. However, in practice, most exalted ranks of the priesthood consisted of human women.
Tymora was the most famous deity around the country of Cormyr, after she protected their capital, Suzail, during the Time of Troubles. Her efforts prompted a resurgence of her faith throughout the nation. The priests of Tymora didnt charge visitors for service, however most people provided offerings, believing that it would increase their luck. Thanks to those donations, the Tymoran temples around Cormyr were extremely wealthy.
Nobles and merchants were constantly seeking the blessing of Tymora, and no significant venture was undertaken without the prayers of the Luckbringers.
A luckbringer of Tymora.
Halflings believed that, since Tymora often manifested as a halfling to them, she was actually a halfling deity herself and had conned the big folk into worshiping her as well. Some even considered her to be one of Yondallas Children. Halflings called Tymora either “Tymora” or “Shalamora” or referred to her as Lady Luck or Our Smiling Lady.
250px|Tymoras symbol.
Throughout her existence, Tymora had several symbols related to her. That included featureless disk of silver, triangle of silver shooting stars falling in the night sky, and floating, randomly and slowly turning, sphere of everbright silver. However, Tymoras most well-known and latest holy symbol was a face-up silver coin with an image of her face surrounded by shamrocks.
Offerings made to the goddess of luck were often accompanied by the prayer, "A copper to the Lady returns tenfold in gold," which a priest would answer with "Dare much, and the Lady keep you."
During times known as the Dawn Cataclysm, the former deity of luck, Tyche, controlled both good and bad luck. While traveling around the world, she came upon a beautiful rose, which she attempted to pluck from the earth. Unable to do so, Tyche cursed it with bad luck, whereupon its stem broke and it fell to the ground. She placed the rose in her hair, oblivious to a fact that it was in fact a trap from Moander, deity of rot and decay. His evil essence worked its corruption into Tyche’s ear, after which started to drain her lifeforce, wither her form within and corrupt her in body and soul. When she finally returned to the Upper planes, the oblivious Tyche came upon her friends Selûne, goddess of the moon, Lathander, god of birth and renewal, and Azuth, god of arcane magic who were waiting to speak to her. However, instead of beautiful goddess, the three deities witnessed the disgusting creature that had once been Tyche, rotting from the inside. They saw the corruption destroying her, and unable to help her in any other way, Selûne casted bolt of light as the last effort to purify her. However, Tyche instead split apart, creating Tymora, the goddess of good luck, and then Beshaba, the goddess of misfortune.
In 1358 DR during the Time of Troubles, Tymoras avatar manifested in the Cormyrian city of Suzail and then traveled to the Ladys House, a temple devoted to her worship in Arabel. She protected that city during the crisis. It was thought that her presence in that city spared Cormyr from the chaos which affected most of the rest of Faerûn at the time.
In 1384 DR, shortly before the catastrophic events of the Spellplague, Tymora was involved in an unfortunate misunderstanding when the goddess of love Sune, encouraged her and Tyr, god of law and justice, to pursue a romantic relationship to restore balance to the Celestial Planes, after Siamorphe left the House of the Triad to make her realm in Brightwater. Tyr was led to believe (some say due to the machinations of the god of deception, Cyric), that Helm, god of guardians, who was chaperoning the couple, was seeing Tymora behind his back, and completely stole her heart. This led to Tyr challenging Helm to a duel, which the latter accepted because he felt that it was the honorable act to accept the challenge. As a result of a duel, Helm was apparently slain, leading to more chaos in the Celestial realms. So upset was Tymora at this turn of events, that she abandoned her realm in Brightwater, and was accepted by Selûne to live in the Gates of the Moon. In 1368 DR, Iyachtu Xvim attempted to deceive Lathander into rejoining Tymora and Beshaba back into Tyche, however his plans were foiled.