The vengeance knights were a group of elite warriors who served in the employ of the Knights of the Shield, the secretive cabal of politicians and merchants who wielded considerable influence in many governments along the Sword Coast.
They were juggernauts of destruction, wielded by the organization that instilled in them zealous fervor and dedication.
These warriors tended to be malicious and ferocious individuals. While their reputation for cruelty often preceded then, their arrival demanded respect and fear from anyone they encountered.
The "knights" were little more than enforcers who used intimidation tactics and violence to coerce individuals or other organizations to comply with the Knights of the Shield. In particular, they sought retribution against any entity that were believed to have wrong their employers.
Each member of the Knights of the Shield kept a handful of vengeance knights under their direct command, serving as something of a mentor to them. In exchange for their service, the vengeance knights were granted greater access and insight into the Knights of the Shield organization.
Due to their preference for heavy armor, vengeance knights trained extensively with its use in battle. Their ability to carry out adroit movements and carry on through lengthy skirmishes only improved with the more experience they gained.
The sight of a vengeance knight was a truly terrifying thing. They used the fear their targets felt against them, exploiting it for every advantage possible.
While in combat, vengeance knights could utilize a number of techniques to gain the upper hand. They were skilled counter–attackers, and were experts at utilizing their shields in a fight. The more venerated vengeance knights were capable overcoming the effects of some arcane spells and reflecting them back at their casters.
Vengeance knights preferred to wear heavy plated armor and menacing helms, each of which were embellished with terrifying symbols.
New knights were recruited from amongst the most vicious thugs and skilled warriors who regularly worked for the Knights of the Shield. Many fighters were recruited to their ranks, but also some disgraced paladins, and even the malevolent blackguards.
After they received an invitation by one of the Knights of the Shield, these warriors were given boarding and trained to fight in their specific style. During this period their mental fortitude was being assessed, their loyalty was being rested, and their psychological profile was fleshed out by one of the Knights.
Novice vengeance knights were systematically brainwashed to see the Knights tenets and ideologies to be inherently justified.