| used-by   = dwarven clerics and druids of Thard Harr
| variants  = 
| rules     = 2eIn 2 edition, vuddar was a specialty priest kit in 3 edition, "vuddar" could refer to any cleric or druid of Thard Harr.
| classname = vuddor
Vuddor (singular vuddar) were the specialty priests of Thard Harr, the patron of the wild dwarves.
The word vuddar means "of the jungle" in the Authalan dialect.
The vuddor were held in high esteem by dur Authalar, who considered Thard Harr to be the only dwarven god.
While the vast majority of vuddor were wild dwarves, Thard Harrs clergy did in fact include members of other dwarven subraces as members as well.
About half of Thard Harrs clergy were vuddor. By 1370 DR about 40% of the vuddor were male, a much higher percentage than in other dwarven clerical orders.
Like all priests of Thard Harr, upon initiation into the order, a vuddar would be granted a special title from his or her god through a dream in the middle of the night. This title was usually the name of a great jungle beast.
Along with the regular clerics (called "shamans") of Thard Harr, the vuddor led their fellow dwarves on hunts or into war and also served as the spokespeople for their tribes.
They always prayed for their spells in the mornings.
While the shamans of Thard Harr could turn undead, members of the vuddor did not. Vuddor were granted spells from the all, animal, combat, elemental, guardian, healing, plant, protection, or weather spheres, with some additional spells from the chaos, charm, creation, divination, necromantic, sun, and travelers spheres.
A vuddar was an expert in animal lore and survival skills. Vuddor could read and write in Dethek runes, unlike most wild dwarves. They sometimes also learned the ways of rangers.
Like all clergy of Thard Harr, the vuddor armored themselves in oil and dried mud. They wore animal skulls as helmets and never cut their hair or beards.
Rather than carry a holy symbol, the vuddor wore Thard Harrs icon as a tattoo on their forearms.