0
108450
982849
871402
2024-09-22T191811Z
IcarusATB
985659
The name is wrong, from the two citations given.   If theres another name, it needs to be cited.
982849
wikitext
text/x-wiki
Choke creepers, otherwise known as strangler vines, were a rare type of carnivorous vine plant that could be found throughout much of the Realms.
thumb|227x227px|Another man falls victim to a choke creeper.
The central stem of a choke creeper was typically  thick, though some specimens were noted to have a thickness comparable to that of a tree, and could grow to be over  with several other vine branches fanning out from it in all directions. On average there were around four to eight vines along each  section of the choke creeper and sixteen at its center.
The vine branches of a choke creeper on average grew to be  and had an olive green hue. These branch vines had flexible tendrils that allowed them to move  per minute. The smallest of choke creepers had around eight branches, while the largest typically had around sixty four.
Choke creepers possessed no form of sentience, but they were attracted to light, heat, and movement.
Any damage to the vines of a choke creeper would not harm the central plant itself. Small fires, such as that given by a torch, had no effect on them. Severe cold and cold-based spells could temporarily impede their movement. By contrast, running electricity through them was known to cause their vines to move faster.
thumb|227x227px|The corpse of a past victim dangles from a choke creeper.
These plants were so named for their tendency grapple unsuspecting creatures and squeeze them with a strangling grip to the point of death.
The existence of choke creepers on Toril dated back to at least the days of Netheril.
Circa 1367 DR, choke creepers began to grow beneath the waters of the River Ashaba, threatening the balance of that ecosystem.
Some speculated that the choke creeper may in some way be related to the hangman tree.
Choke creepers typically grew in the forests of regions with a temperate climate.
In north Faerûn they could be found in many of the heavy forests of Cormanthor, Daggerdale, and Shadowdale. Particularly in the Border Forest, the Vale of Lost Voices, Spiderhaunt Wood, and the ruins of Myth Drannor.
In interior Faerûn they could be found in much of Cormyrs temperate forests, In this region they could also be found in the lands of Sembia and the Dalelands.
In west Faerûn choke creepers grew in the Forest of Tethir, the Forest of Mir.
In South Faerûn, they grew in the Forest of Amtar and the Thornwood.
Beyond Faerûn, choke creepers could be found in the jungles of Chult and the land of Ra-Khati where they infested the ruins of Kuo Meilan.
* Constrictor weed
* Strangle weed
How the Mighty Are Fallen
CategoryVines
nll2ft56hqdoryep714lvpyrd07a73x