Avernus was the first layer of the Nine Hells of Baator. The most likely beachhead for any attack by demon-kind, it was the primary battleground of the Blood War legions of devils marched across its plains in continual readiness to repel the hordes of demon invaders that sailed the River Styx into the layer.
Avernus was the largest layer of Baator and one of the most traditionally infernal—a blasted hellscape in the most literal sense filled with rivers of lava, barren hills, and low, rocky mountains as far as the eye could see. dotted with bubbling tar pits, sucking quicksand, lakes of lava, and salt flats made from the tears of the damned.
thumb|350px|right|Zariel flying across the wastelands of Avernus.
Fireballs raced across the dark sky of Avernus, seemingly at random (but on closer inspection actively targeted motion), and fell to the scorched earth, leaving smoking impact craters and burnt corpses in their wake. Roiling clouds of red and black flickered with orange flames 
Blood, as it would happen, was the leitmotif of Avernus it was where the River of Blood ran through Baator, collecting rivulets from every gulch, stream, and pool, from the victims of millions of battles.
As with all the lower planes, the River Styx ran through Avernus, with a number of offshoots and falls. The Styx, which at one point flowed at the edge of the layer, was later located at its center thanks to a relentless baatezu campaigning and conquering of gate-towns along the layers edges.
thumb|250px|left|A legion of barbazu (right) faces a horde of dretches (left) in Avernus, the battlefield of the Blood War.
Whether for the living or the dead, Avernus was the entry point to Baator and the most commonly visited of the Nine Hells, since Asmodeus forbade any portals opening to other regions. Because of this, damned souls had to come through Avernus before reaching other layers of the Nine Hells and so the layer was frequently inhabited by the servants of other archdevils, such as the barbazus that gathered the forsaken, or imp and spinagon messengers. The primary reason for the magical restriction was that, for a demonic invasion force to access the lower layers of Hell, they would be forced to conquer and claim the layer directly above it.
As the buffer between the Nine Hells and the Abyss, Avernus was incredibly dangerous even without its natural hazards, as baatezu armies trained for future battles. It was in a state of constant expansion by military conquest.
The ruler of Avernus was titled the Lord of the First. was demoted by Asmodeus and made her advisor. She resided in a soaring basalt citadel. When he ruled, Bel dwelled in his own fortress at the center of the Bronze Citadel.
The famous material known as Baatorian green steel could only be found on the wasteland level of Avernus. This ore was extracted from deep shafts in large-scale mining operations. The ore could be used to forge green-tinted steel, tougher, sharper, and lighter than steel found on the Prime.
thumb|500x350px|The Blood War in full swing on Avernus. Click on the image to get the full effect.
Avernus was once ruled by then-archfiend Tiamat, who served Asmodeus faithfully.
Avernus was then ruled by Zariel, until she was inevitably betrayed by Bel, a pit fiend general waging the Blood War and not one of the Dark Eight. He was Lord of the First by 1372 DR. Bels minions whispered that he kept Zariel prisoner deep within the Bronze Citadel and drained her of her hellish power, slowly turning her into a soul shell while he enhanced his might. Lacking the support of the other Lords of the Nine, bar maybe Asmodeus, Bel could advance no further, at least for the time being.
During Bels rule, Asmodeus asked Tiamat to offer covert aid to Zariel in order to prevent Bel from becoming too powerful, in a ploy orchestrated with Bel to keep Tiamat herself in check,
Some time after the Spellplague, Asmodeus offered Tiamat the rulership of Avernus once more. However, to avoid disappointing Asmodeus again and to prevent a conflict with Bel, Tiamat refused, instead offering to be Asmodeus champion and devouring all who opposed him.
Some time later, Bel fell out of favor with Asmodeus for his inability to successfully repel a demonic invasion of Avernus. Zariel reclaimed her title as Lord of Avernus following Bels demotion. He was forced to serve as Zariels advisor
Before Zariels second rule, Avernus was known to be a rich and civilized realm of cities and commerce. The Blood War reduced the entire layer to a blasted and abandoned wasteland, whose only functioning structures were military citadels to muster the devilish forces.
Upon her return to power, Zariel, still enraged from having been at Tiamats mercy, assisted Severin Silrajin and a group of Red Wizards of Thay to free her from Avernus, if only to rid the layer of Tiamats presence.
* The Bronze Citadel A huge fortress-city dozens of square miles in extent and ringed by twelve heavily defended walls. It housed hundreds of thousands of lesser devil troops and war machines. It was constantly being added to in the form of new fortifications against attacks.
* The Great Avernus Road A massive road leading from Bels fortress for the purpose of transporting large armies of devils swiftly to battle.Colin McComb (1994). Well of Worlds. Edited by Jon Pickens, Sue Weinlein. (TSR, Inc). ISBN 1560768932.
* The Pillar of Skulls A hideous landmark of trophy-skulls of those killed in the Blood War. It reached a height of more than 1 mile (1.6 kilometers). It was very close to the entrance to the second layer, Dis.
* Draukari, the realm of the chief deity of the kobolds, Kurtulmak.
* Peaceable Lands, the realm of Bargrivyek, the goblin god of co-operation and territory.
* Tiamats Lair, a tall mountain that was the prison of Tiamat in the Great Wheel cosmology. A massive cave mouth near the base of the Pillar of Skulls led into Tiamats Lair from here, she could guard the crossing to Dis against demon attacks.
* Basalt Tower, the fortress of the powerful devil Belhifet.
thumb|220px|The settlement of Fort Knucklebone, run by the infamous Mad Maggie.
An especially high metal spire of Dis, the plane below, skewered through the haze between layers and emerged in Avernus near the Pillar of Skulls. Its spiral stairwell let devils and petitioners cross on foot between the layers, with many falls, by chance of otherwise.
A portal to Avernus was erected in the spring of the  in the Burial Glen of Myth Drannor by Banites loyal to the High Imperceptor of Mulmaster, but under the influence of Zhentarim agents and, by proxy, a cabal of alhoon living in the ruins. The alhoon had it erected so that the devils it spawned would prevent the local phaerimms from attacking the liches while they searched the city for magic. Although intended to only remain open a short time, interference from Malkizid caused it to become permanent. The portal was eventually closed by the Knights of Myth Drannor in 1357 DR, though the devils it had already unleashed over the previous 11 years continued to infest the ruins until the Elven Crusade led by Seiveril Miritar in 1374 DR.
Another portal to Avernus was erected in Dragonspear Castle by a Calishite mage after Daeros Dragonspear, the castles builder, was tricked into sacrificing himself.
The layer was inhabited primarily by abishai, lemures, nupperibos, and spinagons. Imps were also common, as well as dragons, goblins, and kobolds.
Legions of devils dressed in mail stood an eternal watch on Avernus, in readiness for a sortie in the Blood War.