The Bastion of Hate was a great fortress that served as the divine realm of Iyachtu Xvim. The Bastion was originally located in Gehenna, but was subsequently relocated to the Abyss. Following Xvims death, the fortress was claimed by a group of githzerai.
The Bastion of Hate was a vast and blocky fortified castle made of basalt. In Gehenna, it was located on the slopes of the massive volcano Chamada, and towered above the rivers of lava that surrounded it. The other side of the Bastion was protected by a thick, crescent-shaped double wall dotted with six towers. The parapets were adorned with horn-shaped spikes and the walls were armored with riveted iron plates approximately  thick which glowed with the heat of the surrounding lava. Spartan rooms inside these walls served as mess halls, armories, and chambers for new arrivals to await formal invitation into the Bastion. A hole in the Bastions walls allowed for access to a pool of lava that Xvim personally used to torture his prisoners and victims.
The main courtyard of the Bastion between the cliffs and walls was wide and lit by rows of torches. As one entered the fortress, there was a temple of Xvim to the right and a large tower to the left that rose high above the walls.
The temple was rectangular and made of black marble. It sat on a low hill and was reached by climbing a large staircase littered with bones to enter into the temples great hall. This long room was flanked by smaller rooms&mdashin which the resident priests occupied themselves&mdashas well as by an audience chamber at the rear where visitors met with the temples high priest seated on a throne upholstered with human flesh.
The tower’s main door was kept barred with a gargantuan thighbone. This tower served as the seat of Xvims power, and contained his throne room on the ground-level. that led to a trapdoor at the very top of the tall tower. All windows on the tower were magically barred to prevent intrusion.
The fortress was imbued with powerful arcane magic that repelled lava and invaders alike,
Among the many weapons kept in the Bastions armory was a large store of smokepowder.
The fortress originally sat on the slopes of the great volcano Chamada, the second layer of Gehenna, amid constant lava flows. Subsequently, it was embedded into the side of a mountain in the Spires of Rajzak located somewhere in the Abyss.
As Xvims divine realm during the mid-to-late 14 century DR, the Bastion of Hate was manned by a vast army of yugoloth mercenaries&mdashparticularly hydroloths, mezzoloths, and piscolothsWhile Tymoras Luck does not identify mezzoloths and piscoloths by name, these are consistent with the description of yugoloths with the features of "horned crickets" and "red lobsters" respectively.&mdashwho lived in the tunnels behind the fortress. It also hosted a number of humanoid members of Xvim’s church who dwelt in the temple. Members of the clergy included
* Tyrannar Noxxe, the high priest in charge of the Bastion of Hate in .
* Tyrannar Neri, the high priest who succeeded Noxxe.
* Hatemaster Morr, a priest who greeted new arrivals and would serve as a guide at the behest of Tyrannar Neri.
* Hatemaster Perr, a priest who died and returned to the Bastion as a petitioner, and was then assigned to the lowly task of gatekeeper.
* Twenty armored priests and priestesses serving as guards.
* Six priests who acted as scribes.
* More than one hundred additional guards and low-ranking priests.
Other notable inhabitants during the mid-to-late 14 century DR included Ratagar the imp.
As of the late 15 century DR, the Bastion of Hate within the Abyss was home to demons and to a small group of powerful yet cautious githzerai.
The Bastion of Hate was thought by some to have been built in the distant past by an unknown architect. 
Prior to the Time of Troubles and his bid to claim his fathers portfolio, the then-demigod Iyachtu Xvim had no divine realm, and was known to divide his time between the Prime Material plane and Acheron. Following his ascension, he established himself at the Bastion of Hate during the 1360s DR.
In the , Xvim sent minions to attack Beshaba, the goddess of misfortune, who retaliated by personally attacking the Bastion of Hate. However, Xvim was absent, and as she prepared to wait for him, she became imprisoned in his throne room and ultimately fell into a comatose state as he siphoned her power away. Despite this, bad luck seeped from her and infected the fortress for the next two days, resulting in the deaths of the head priest, Tyrannar Noxxe, as well as the captain of the guard and over 100 lesser priests and guards. At that point, Beshabas cleric-turned-exarch Walinda stormed the fortress alongside an army of barlguras, hezrous, and bulezaus. With the help of Joel the Rebel Bard, the Bastions gatekeeper was persuaded that the demons were in fact part of a simple power struggle between the Xvimlar leaders, and so the army was granted entrance and were able to storm the castle and clash with the yugoloth defenders. Walinda sacrificed herself to awaken Beshaba, at which point the Bastion of Hate had the "bad luck" to be struck by a massive earthquake. While the fortress itself was too strong to be damaged by the quake, Mount Chamada was not the ledge on which the Bastion was located was dislodged, leaving the fortress to slide violently down the volcanic mountain.
As of the time of Xvims death in the , the Bastion of Hate had been relocated to the Abyss where it appeared to be carved into the side of a mountain in the bleak badlands of the Spires of Rajzak.
Following the events of the Spellplague, Xvim’s ownership of the Bastion was forgotten. Throughout the 15 century DR, the mighty structure proved to be one of the only buildings capable of withstanding the dangers of the Spires of Rajzak, and thus became a popular base for the local demonic hordes. As of the , a group of githzerai had begun to explore the Bastion with the intention of converting it into a monastery.
Some feared that Iyachtu Xvim had the power to extend a ghostly hand into the Material Plane to snatch folk away to the Bastion of Hate.