The Blood Tor was the 13 layer of the Abyss, home of the Maid of Misfortune, Beshaba, and the Bitch Queen, Umberlee. In the World Tree cosmology, the Blood Tor was considered the part of the Barrens of Doom and Despair in Gehenna.
The Blood Tor was one of the layers of the Abyss survivable by mortals and planewalkers. The Tor was a large peak of black rock, surrounded by a complex of steep boulder-strewn slopes, tress-like ridges, and treacherous ravines and chasms. The realm of the Blood Tor was illuminated however, it was unclear what was the source of light.
Black rocks of the Blood Tor hid numerous caverns, often used by Beshabas devotees and servants. The goddess herself was known to use caves with pools of blood-red water as her scrying bowls as she dispensed cruel punishments on those who slighted her.
A single tower of granite stood on the summit of the Blood Tor—the palace of the goddess of ill luck Beshaba.
The Blood Tor held portals to other layers of the Abyss.
Very little vegetation could be found on the Blood Tor. The most common plant life was the red and black lichen that grew on the black and grey rocks of Beshabas mountain.
The 13 layer of the Abyss was home to huge black stags, totem servants of Beshaba. These creatures haunted the visitors of the Maid of Misfortunes realm. and deadly fetch.
The Blood Tor was considered one of the greatest tanarri military successes of the Blood War. The layer was the site of a major but unsuccessful baatezu blitz.
In the , Beshaba used one of her blood-water scrying pools to punish Doljust, an aging nobleman who had displeased the goddess of ill-luck. She watched Doljust as he faced off against a werebat. The creatures cave had two dead toddlers in front of it, which was a grim omen of things to come. The goddess swayed the nobles hound, forcing the beast to pounce at the lycanthrope as Doljust swung his sword. As the man mourned his beloved dying dog, Beshabas vengeance became apparent. Doljust swung his blade once again at a sound that came from behind. A moment later, another, smaller werebat, cleaved by Doljusts sword, shifted back to its humanoid form. The adolescent werebeast was a young child who whispered "grandfather" as he died in his older relatives arms. Satisfied with her work, Beshaba dismissed the scrying spell and left the cave with the blood-red pool.
Later the same year, a group of adventurers, sent by Beshabas fellow Torillian deity Finder Wyvernspur, arrived at the Blood Tor. Joel the Rebel Bard, a winged fighter named Jasmine, and a cheerful kender called Emilo Haversack traveled the deadly slopes of the Tor towards Beshabas tower, thinking that the Lady of Misfortune was behind recent power surges that plagued Beshabas sister Tymora. During their travels, Iyachtu Xvim attempted to lead the group to certain death in the guise of a god from the world of Krynn, Sirrion. The adventurers faced a deadly fetch, survived, and eventually discovered the Beshaba suffered the same affliction as her sister, sending waves and quakes of her divine power across the Blood Tor and wreaking havoc on Toril.
Following the events of the Spellplague of 1385 DR, the Blood Tor became part of Tempuss divine realm of the Warriors Rest in Limbo.
*Gallowshill, a cloistered fortress on the Blood Tor that belonged to a marilith general Taramanda. The fortress was closed to all by the generals most trusted advisers.
The goddess herself resided in the granite tower, served by petitioners, alu-fiends, and other abyssal creatures. Beshaba was occasionally visited by her good consort Tempus.
*Airdna and Okim, Beshabas loyal servant alu-fiends circa 1368 DR.