The Crescent Grove, also called Gwyllachaightaeryll (meaning the Many-Splendored in the Elven language) or simply Corellons Tower, was the great palace of Arvandor and the divine realm of Corellon Larethian and Sehanine Moonbow.
The Crescent Grove was at the center of the Seldarines joint realm of Arvandor. In the World Tree cosmology, Arvandor was one of the Celestial planes.
The palace was an ever-changing blend of nature and art, combining an architecture of white marble pillars and walkways with enormous white-barked trees. Many turrets went out from the main spire in a confusing yet beautiful way.  Many petitioners of Arvandor spent their time here, reflecting in quiet contemplation and enjoying some undisturbed solitude. The tower resonated with the presence of its deities.
Inside the tower, the appearance of the rooms was ever-changing. They were decorated with numerous elvish works of art, both beautiful and terrible. Only the throne room at the center remained a constant.
Overlook
At the center of the palace stood the rising tower with windows of crystal called the Overlook. It offered a breathtaking view of the entire realm, and even into the prime worlds that were home to elves. It was a favorite destination for visitors.In contrast to the description in the Players Guide to Faerûn, the depiction of Corellons Tower in On Hallowed Ground shows Wisdoms Height as the tallest spire at the centre of the palace.
Wisdoms Height
The palaces throne room was named Wisdoms Height. As an annual event, visitors could gain an audience with Corellon and Sehaine themselves here.
The Bough of Magics Gain
An area dedicated to the magical arts according to rumor, meditating here for a whole year brought a leap in the understanding of magic.
Pureblood
This part of the palace was designated for the healing of the soul, meant for elves who experienced the taint of evil or the weariness of life.
Vigils Rest
This was the area for the healing of the body, where ailments and illnesses could be remedied.
Council Hall
This big tower was the meeting ground of the Seldarine, but also open to visitors.
The palace was originally a tower built by giants, which the Seldarine wrested from the giant powers together with the rest of the Arvandor. It had long since been transformed into a truly elven affair.