The Dragon Eyrie was the home of the Draconic pantheon, manifesting as a vast mountain with its peak eternally covered in frost and surrounded by wispy clouds.
While the Dragon Eyrie was the home of all draconic deities, only Hlal, Null, Task, and Tiamat had permanent lairs on the plane.When they were first introduced in the 2 edition Draconomicon, the divine realms of the various draconic deities were scattered throughout the planes Asgorath on an unknown plane, Astilabor and Kereska in Limbo, Garyx in the Abyss, Hlal in Olympus, Lendys in Nirvana, Null in Gehenna, Tamara on Elysium, Task in Pandemonium, Xymor in the Seven Heavens, Zorquan on the Prime Material Plane, and Tiamat in the Nine Hells. 
There were several "soft borders" connecting Tiamats realm in the Dragon Eyrie with Avernus on the plane of the Nine Hells. Dragon Eyrie also contained links to Arvandor.
Around the mountain flew the spirits of departed dragons. Other departed souls whose destination was the Dragons Eyrie included half-dragons, dragonkin, and other forms of dragonkind. Khaasta and abishai also dwelled on this plane, and living planar dragons of all kinds visited the Eyrie from time to time. A few hermit non-dragons also inhabited the plane, although dragons only tolerated them grudgingly.
The mountain was divided into four major regions the dark roots, the lower reaches, the middle crags, and the peak. With the exception of the peak—which was entirely Nulls divine realm—the divine realms were small regions and didnt occupy the whole of any given region. Most of the mountain was open territory without claim from any deity, where the petitioners of the plane sought solitude.
Hlal, trickster god and messenger deity, lived in the lower reaches with her brass dragon and copper dragon petitioners. The spirits of red dragons, blue dragons, and black dragons lived in various portions of the lower reaches as well.
Null, god of death, ruled the entirety of the mountains peak, along with white dragon and silver dragon petitioners attracted to the cold air and permanent snow cover.
Task, god of greed, lived in the middle reaches in a volcanic region known as the Furnace. The spirits of red, gold, and bronze dragons lived here as well, attracted by the heat and lava.
Tiamats realm, originally the realm of a god known as Azharul, also called the Dragonspawn Pits of Azharul but renamed by Tiamat into the Cave of Greed after she killed the god,
The Dragon Eyrie was one of the planes destroyed by the Spellplague.