Khin-Oin, also called the Wasting Tower, was the seat of power of the Oinoloth.
Depending on how the planes were arranged, Khin-Oin was either on Oinos on Hades under the Great Wheel Cosmology, or on the Blood Rift in the Abyss under the World Axis Cosmology.
The tower looked like a spinal column.
The tower was twenty miles high with another twenty miles of underground levels. Smaller towers were built out of the vertebra on the above-ground levels, while the structure of the underground levels was not known.
In the top chamber of the tower was the Siege Malicious, a magical throne on which a prospective Oinoloth sat to be accepted as the future Oinoloth after killing its predecessor.
There was seemingly an infinite number of rooms inside the tower and, apart from halls where the ultroloths fought each other, the tower had drill fields and battle fields, laboratories, suites for the ultroloths, orreries, spawning vats, meditation chambers, interplanar map rooms, and so on.
In theory, the ruler of the tower, the Oinoloth, organized the yugoloth races activities on Hades from the Wasting Tower. In practice, its efforts were concentrated on keeping and securing its own position as the Oinoloth, because the ultroloths who lived in the tower vied for control over it and, because they could hardly ever come to an agreement and knew it, fighting physically against each other in the debating halls of the tower.
The aforementioned strife among the denizens of the tower never reached levels that crippled the yugoloths ability to unite against and thwart a common foe.
The tower was created from the spine of a deity whom the yugoloths killed.
The longest serving Oinoloth was Phraxas the Decayed with a non-continuous rulership time of about three thousand years. He became Oinoloth around .
He was ousted by the ultroloth Mydianchlarus at some point between 1357 DRThe "present day" in Swords of the Iron Legion, when Anthraxus was still in power. and 1369 DR.The "present day" in Faces of Evil The Fiends, when Anthraxus had already been ousted.
He later retook it, ruling again by around 1379 DR and until at least 1479 DR.
It was believed that the yugoloth race started in the place where the Wasting Tower stood to be precise, under the lowest underground level. None but yugoloths controlled the tower and all who tried to wrestle away control over the tower were defeated by the united force of the yugoloths.
A large number of ultroloths lived in and vied for control over the tower.