Lunia, the Silver Heaven, was the first and lowest layer of the plane of Mount Celestia in both the Great Wheel and World Tree cosmologies. It was sometimes called the Silver Sea, after its great ocean.
Lunia was a large mountain-island sparsely covered with citadels of white stone, atop white cliffs, and with the palaces of minor deities. Visitors reported different architectural styles for these citadels. Some of the citadels were located on separate islands, some of which were miles long. Trading towns also dotted Lunia, and sea elves from the Material plane were commonly found engaged in trade there.
Some cosmologists considered Lunia something like a subsection of the greater mountain of Celestia
It was always night here, but the dark sky was full of silver stars collectively so bright that a moon was not needed to provide light, and the temperature was like that of a summers night.
Most of the portal connections from other planes came into this layer. During stormy weather, the sound was like that of thunder.
The Silver Sea contained all manner of sea life, from schools of tiny silver fishes, to sea elves, dolphins, and celestial whales, to giant creatures of the deep. In calm weather, some of these creatures could be heard singing songs of praise toward the archons. Those who could not swim were quick to be rescued by the zoveri and led to shore&mdashassuming that they were not a kind of creature harmed by holy water!
To reach Lunia with the plane shift spell required a gold planar fork tuned to the note of D.
200px|Barachiel, the ruler of Lunia.
The ruler of Lunia was Barachiel, one of the celestial paragons of the archons. He commanded all of Celestias forces against attacks on the sacred mountain, though these rarely occurred. He reigned from the Citadel of Stars.
Lunia was divided into 196 provinces, each with a throne archon serving as governor. These 196 thrones reported through the hierarchy up to Barachiel. The defense of Lunia was ensured by the host of hound archons.
The largest trading center of Lunia was known as Hearts Faith, located not far from a portal from the Outlands. It was built into the side of a cliff and was ruled by a powerful lammasu and his harem. The town had a central plaza that flooded at high tide to serve as a harbor for travelers.
Besides Hearts Faith, another well-known complex was the Fortress Eternal and Everlasting. Barachiels palace, the Citadel of Stars, was located on the shore of the Silver Sea.
One of the castles found on the shore of Lunia was the home of an evil wizard trying to reform his ways. Castle Mahlhevik was built with full permission from the archons of Lunia.
Far out in the Silver Sea was found an abandoned tower known as the Tower of Fire. Powerful magic prevented anyone from flying to the tower the only way to reach it seemed to be by water. The purpose of the tower was unknown, but the place was filled with an eerie blue fire that was very hot but caused no harm. The rooms of the tower seemed to shift and change without reason, though some claimed that there was a yet-to-be-discovered pattern to this.
One of Tyrs domains, the Court, was located here.
Besides the many varieties of sea creatures living in the Silver Sea, Lunias primary inhabitants were the lantern archons, the petitioners of the deities of The Triad.