Maladomini was the seventh layer of the Nine Hells of Baator. Ruled by the archdevil Baalzebul, it was the center for all bureaucracy of the Nine Hells, a byzantine labyrinth of information where every document and deed of the infernal plane was eventually archived. The Circle of Ruins, sometimes titled of the Ruins was a testament to the degeneracy of the Lord of the Flies, the legacy of his pursuit of unattainable perfection.
Like the higher layer of Minauros, Maladomini was a reeking, filth-ridden mire where the corruptive, toxic and pestilent was empowered while forces of health and vigor were weakened.
 pollution and deception permeated every aspect of the environment, for the watchword in the Circle of Ruins was decay, in both the physical and moral sense.
Maladomini was a scarred, urban wasteland dominated by teetering heaps of trash, The scattered ruins of collapsed towers and hollow fortresses formed a desolate cityscape. Between these dead cities were endless extraction pits and slag heaps that riddled the land like sores. The vast quarries and strip mines looked like gaping wounds, belching filth into the air as the layers labor force toiled ceaselessly to find more stone and minerals in their resource-starved working areas.
Further into the mines was a vast, maze-like network of winding tunnels which honeycombed all Maladomini.
Crisscrossing the land from the quarries to the various castles of the horned devils were poorly maintained roads littered with garbage. Even so, the canals were polluted and clogged, spilling effluvium all throughout Maladomini.
In terms of geography, Maladomini was very similar to Malbolge, at least during the period it was under the control of Moloch (and by extension the control of Baalzebul as well). It was hot to the touch, and filled with stinking gasses and smoke, earth tremors and underground explosions, huge caves and caverns, and pits of fire.
There were several distinguishing elements however. Granite was commonly seen across the surface, and from the earth erupted not only the layers black ichor, but also lava, the volcanic cascades swelling the magma rivers. These rivers contributed to the great sea of lava that seemingly encircled the entire plane within that sea was a ring of volcanic mountains, and it was within that ring that the layers civilization sat.
Most notable of the differences however were Maladominis despoiled qualities. Under a sky the shade of blue-black blood, sentient chunks of polluted matter crawled out from the banks of sludge-ridden streams only to choke on toxic air and quickly expire. Whatever remnants of stunted trees that were still dying as opposed to dead eventually collapsed, succumbed to rot, or spontaneously burst into damp, smoldering flames upon contact with the slag. "Natural" sources of light could be found in the dim, sickly radiance emitted by green flames found on the layer, which were either flickering fires fed by the fluids seeping out from the ground along the river banks or drifting, blazing spheres.
By Asmodeuss decree, no planar portals could connect directly to any layer of Hell besides Avernus. This meant that in general, if one wanted to get to Maladomini, they would have to go the layer above it, Malbolge, and find a portal, and likewise would need another to get to Cania below. Portals existed from at least one of the fortresses of Malbolge to Baalzebuls primary city of Malagard, as well as from Malagard to Mephistopheless city of Mephistar.
Getting to Maladomini at all was generally not easy, but there were portals to several locations of the layer within Sigil, and portals to its city of Grenopli within the Outlands. Nearly all known portals were controlled by the baatezu, leaving many trapped there.
In the World Axis cosmology model, the Nine Hells were a planet-shaped astral dominion floating in the Astral Sea, no longer of infinite size nor consisting of layers. In this cosmology, Maladomini was one of the largest of the Nine Hells, a subterranean maze of winding tunnels, Sludge rivers flowed through the centers of the tunnels, some illuminated by green fire and others stewing in foul darkness.
The branching tunnels of Maladomini linked the lower Hells of Malbolge, Cania, and even Nessus together. A marble boulevard lined with hideous statues, known as the Road of Perdition, led from Malbolge to Maladomini, and Maladominis tunnels eventually connected to the cold cavern of Cania. In the World Axis, the River Styx flowed through Maladomini to conclude in Canias glaciers.
* The Carnival Eternal, a vale whose putrid pavilions were forever doused in filth from the unblockable sluice pipe above. and access to the Carnivals thriving black market of contraband forbidden even in the Hells, including stolen souls, banned rituals, false documents and treasures hidden even from archdevils.
* Grenpoli, the City of Diplomacy. A domed city where weapons and all types of aggression were forbidden, it contained the Political School of the Nine Hells, which offered courses on deceit and treachery to enterprising devils.
* Malagard, also called Malagarde, was the greatest city of Maladomini and the home of Baalzebul. As with all the others however, he found it lacking, and its former grandeur was lost. Malagard thus became the embodiment of his sloth, its drooping, crumbling structures monuments to despair, for even Baalzebul gave up on restoring it. Occasionally a dangerous, neurotic frenzy overtook the inhabitants, prompting them rebuild, but they fell back into fatalism just as quickly. Decay advanced all the same as the buildings deteriorated and rivers of trash grew greater every day, and the atmosphere of defeat pervading it became ever more oppressive. The ennui was often contagious, and those that fell to it risked never mustering the will to leave. Baalzebul ruled from the Palace of Filth, his formerly great castle before he was cursed and it collapsed into fecal sludge.
* Offalion, a pile of rubble by a blasted hillside used to simulate specific places on the Prime Material plane. The resident devils used scattered stone to craft parodies of places of influence before running through detailed political scenarios. Conferences, synods, market deals, elections, royal courts, and other such events were acted out as exercises to train devils, whose memories were typically erased by conversion into lemures, so they might subvert the societies of mortals. Each simulation had its own rules and conditions winners were sent to their target planes to put their education into practice while losers were withheld or even demoted. Mortals were sometimes pressed into service to give advice, add authenticity, or even disrupt the scenarios as wild cards. In a sense, Offalion unintentionally served as a demonstration of Baalzebuls latest plans.
* Xibalba, a section of the city-palace of Malagard where the Maztican pantheon came to play the Ball Game. It was filled with a constantly changing array of buildings in the typical Maztican style, the only constant being the great Ball Court itself.
The primary inhabitant of Maladomini was its ruler Baalzebul. Among his council were the respective First and Second Consorts Baftis and Lilith. Neabaz was the Herald of Lies, and the only devil of his allowed to freely roam the Nine Hells. 
Baalzebul also had a host of war-leaders. The generals Abigor, Bileth, and Zepar, Meanwhile Barbatos,
Garrisoned on Maladomini were Baalzebuls Maladominaar, elite shock troopers easily capable of breaking through demonic formations with their ferocious frontal assaults. General Zimimar of the Dark Eight commanded them on the field where they scattered and divided their Abyssal adversaries.
The greatest danger of Maladomini was not any feature of the environment, but the devils under Baalzebuls command. Other devils that could be found there included imps, nupperibos
The hosts of Maladomini consisted primarily of companies of cornugons (company in this case meaning 111 individual devils rather than the usual 333). There were 60 companies under the command of Abigor and 28 under Zepar, who performed various roles ranging from warriors to messengers to laborers. The spinagons attended to the needs and wants of the cornugon laborers, typically under the oversight of an amnizu or more rarely an osyluth.
Pit fiends were rare on Maladomini and noticeably absent from Baalzebuls service there. The Lord of the Flies suspected all of being spies or puppets of Asmodeus, and so was reluctant to allow any of them on his plane, having tasked his generals with driving them all away. Even so, among the many infernal fiefs of Maladomini were the strongholds of quarrelsome pit fiends and war devils.
Maladomini also hosted various unique types of devils. The bizarre ayperobos, creations of Baalzebul, originated in Maladomini and were rarely encountered beyond it. They prowled the misty reaches or were intentionally placed as traps by other devils for travelers. There were also swarm devils, the corrupted souls of angels caught lying to their masters which reformed trapped in a mass of flies that buzzed around Baalzebul. The fiends then moved to one of Maladominis stagnant pools, starving but never dying, eagerly awaiting a mission and chance to feed.
Besides lesser devils, petitioners and enslaved prisoners in Maladomini were made to dig without tools to look for more stone for the layers cities. However, many non-devil inhabitants of Maladomini were not under the control of Baalzebul. The abandoned cities of the layer served as shelters for runaways and deserters,  petitioners who fled their tormentors, native Baatorian creatures who lost their territories, beasts from other planes who became especially lost, and planewalkers trying not to be found. The occasional attempts by Baalzebul to oust them simply caused the malcontents to flee to one of the many other cities his quest for perfection gave them the option of.
Among the varied inhabitants of Maladomini were humans, demihumans, orcs, half-orcs, goblinoids, kobolds, giants, gith, manticores, medusae, beholders, rakshasas, yugoloths, hordlings, maelephants, and rogue modrons and baatezu. In at least one case (a population of orcs the baatezu were trying to breed into a species of lawful evil trolls) their captives did not escape, but were abandoned in an empty city by the baatezu after they didnt shape up to their expectations. In reality the project did succeed, but wasnt given enough generations, and so the enhanced orcs spread throughout the tunnels intent to one day overthrow the masters of Maladomini.
Swarms of hungry flies plagued all who ventured through Maladomini, and acted as the eyes and ears of the Lord of the Flies. The flowing sludge of the rivers prompted the spontaneous generation of a variety of fiendish oozes, such as black puddings, gelatinous cubes, and ochre jellies. Other creatures known to inhabit the plane were vargouilles and hook spiders.
Beneath the ruins of Maladomini were beings that made even the baatezu uneasy. Petitioners, whether lemures or more intelligent types, avoided these tunnels, These entities were, at least in some cases, the Ancient Baatorians, a race of infernal beings that occupied the Nine Hells long before the rise of the baatezu.
In eons past, Maladomini was a beautiful place, a realm of great cities. According to some origins of the Nine Hells, it was like this even before Asmodeus took over the plane. After his regime began, Asmodeus carved up Baator and rewarded those who fought under him with realms and fiefdoms, and also established the infernal bureaucracy, which would be centered in Maladomini. Reports described the seventh hell as a bustling kingdom of impressive cities and a fine collection of roads, gardens, and bridges, where every law and order was filed away in an ever-expanding series of fortresses and archives. Maladomini would be ruled by ancient ally of Asmodeus who had been with him since before he ruled Hell and whose name was lost to time, and not by chance.
The archdevil Baalzebul was once an archon of Mount Celestia by the name of Triel. He awoke in the Nine Hells with the head of a fly, corrupted but empowered greatly by the transformation. Asmodeus, perhaps due to his own familiarity with the long fall into Hell, rose the battered archon up, quickly promoting him to the ranks of nobility.
Triel soon mastered infernal politics, his interminable pursuit of perfection serving him well in scaling Hells hierarchy, culminating in his overthrow of Maladominis original lord. He not only became Lord of the Seventh, but expunged any record of his predecessors identity and deeds, abandoning his former name himself and becoming Baalzebul. By the time he ruled Maladomini, he earned the title "Lord of the Flies", for his web of intrigue was purportedly so tight that not even a fly could escape.
Eons passed as Baalzebul achieved many victories. But Baalzebuls greatest weakness had never been his lacking competence, but his inability stop when he was ahead, his irrepressible need for total perfection in all his endeavors and the extreme actions it drove him to.
For millennia Baalzebul longed for a city befitting his greatness. He commanded his subjects to build him city after city, but was never satisfied, declaring each and every one unworthy upon its completion. had become a place of despoiled land and ruined civilization. But its fall was not yet over.
Reports somewhat conflicted on what exactly was the inciting incident for Maladominis downfall. In some versions, he kicked off the Reckoning of Hell, where the archdevils openly warred to take Asmodeuss throne, and it reached its climatic conclusion in Maladomini. In a more recent version, Baalzebul conspired to depose Asmodeus in such a way as to truly qualify as a crime altering records in his ploy to cast his master as incompetent. This plot was foiled when an unexpected surge of the Blood War demanded his participation, and his initial refusal to send soldiers he was saving for his coup prompted an investigation that revealed his misdeeds. Baalzebul refused to submit to punishment, and the other archdevils attacked Maladomini.
Whatever the specifics of the situation, Baalzebuls realm was wracked by war and left in a state of utter devastation. And, whether for his move against Asmodeus, the insurmountable treachery of interfering with Hells records, or for some other ineffable reason, Baalzebul was to suffer a series of punishments for his sins.
Baalzebul was left to preside over the rotting cities of Maladomini, his ability to scheme neutralized by his new limitations and his attention thus shifting to gathering souls from the Material Plane. But while the ancient cities might have been beacons of glory and triumph long ago, Baalzebul, in his devotion to spreading misery, ultimately beat the capacity to make such structures out of his petitioners.
Oblivious to the decay of his old cities, Baalzebul always sought to improve new ones, and his servants had little choice but to continue stripping bare what little of the land was left. But rather than actually demanding renovations, Baalzebul instead spread word through his pit fiend servants that new cities had to be built from scratch, the old to be left standing as reminders of work already done and rejected. In some cases cities were to be built on new sites and the original structures remained intact if barely used, but at some point it became common practice to cannibalize the old cities for raw materials, hastening their destruction. Newer cities would be built upon the backs of the old until they all ended up below the surface, save for one.
Throughout it all, Baalzebul never truly gave up on the incomplete fortress-city of Malagard, even after, upon being turned into a slug, his grand castle at its center collapsed into fecal sludge, and by order of Asmodeus was to be constantly filled with garbage. Perhaps more surprisingly, despite its capital having been reduced to excrement, Malagard was still universally agreed to be Baalzebuls greatest city yet, even by those who had seen its older incarnations.
Malagard was a city of perfectly straight boulevards and countless straightly-extending, black-spired towers connected by many open and covered bridge-spans crisscrossing and slanting in all directions. Even as the rest of Maladomini was blighted, green things grew in its walls, a planar plant collection tended to by nupperibos supervised by osyluths, themselves watched by cornugons. Nearly all the layers wealth made its way there, from tapestries to furniture to precious stones and metals.
But just as none doubted Malagard was Baalzebuls greatest city, it was equally undisputed that he would reject it just as he did all others. And so dire became the workers dread that they slowed down in the final stages of construction, secretly self-sabotaging much of their work to delay the inevitable.
But the denizens of Maladomini could not stall forever, and were eventually forced to present their work to Baalzebul somewhere around the 14 century DR. And, just as all foresaw, Malagard too was ultimately rejected. The incessant building and rebuilding of the city by the Slug Archduke eventually gave way to despair, and the once majestic city was left to slowly die. Still Baalzebul stayed there, often neglecting his depressing duties maintaining the Palace of Filth with his slime in favor of scheming for dominance, causing entire rooms to collapse and losing many great relics of power in the process.
However, Maladominis ultimate fate might still be changed. In the late 15 century DR, Baalzebul finally reverted to his previous fly-headed form, the abject humiliation forbidding him from extending the transformation with any further lies. Maladomini was still a crumbling realm, but Baalzebul had recently positioned himself as a patron of redemption.