Prismeer was a Domain of Delight found in the parallel plane known as the Feywild. It was created and ruled by the archfey Zybilna, an alias of the Oerthian archmage Tasha.
Like other domains within the Feywild, Prismeers appearance shifted depending on the emotions of those that dwelled within. Zybilna herself could reshape all of Prismeer with a dramatic shift in her feelings, while her period of dormancy allowed others to alter the domain to their own will.
Following its takeover by a coven of hags, Prismeer was split into three distinct realms the lurking swamp of Hither, the ancient woods of Thither, and the perilous mountains of Yon. Each of the realms were separated from the others by obstructive walls of mist, similar to those that surrounded the domain as a whole.
Any children that entered into Prismeer―whether intentionally, inadvertently, or otherwise―were protected by magic enchantments created by Zybilna. It was noteworthy that children never seemed to age within Prismeer, regardless of how long they dwelled within.
Death played out different in Prismeer than it did on the Prime Material plane. In some instances, a creatures body could decay in here moments or turn to stone after its death. In others, the remains could be placed into a form of stasis or instantly rejuvinated, albeit in a weakened state.
Prismeer was bound by a set of laws forged by Zybilna, to which every living being within was subject
* The Rule of Hospitality, which stated everyone was required to be welcoming and congenial to anyone that entered into their home, unless they demonstrated they were unworthy of such accommodation.
* The Rule of Ownership, which forbade thievery or burglary of any kind.
* The Rule of Reciprocity, which directed that anyone receiving of a gift was expected to return the gesture in kind, even if in the distant future.
Failure to adhere to Zybilnas three rules led to excommunication from Prismeer.
Like other Domains of Delight, Prismeer was bound entirely within the Feywild. It was confined within great walls of mists, passage through was was only granted by express consent of the domains ruling archfey.
The ancient forests of Prismeer held numerous faerie rings that were fey crossroads that bound Prismeer to various worlds in different crystal spheres, and one within the Witchlight Carnival.
thumb|right|300px|The Palace of Hearts Desire, Zybilnas home in the center of Prismeer.
* Palace of Hearts Desire, Zybilnas personal refuge that attracted wayward mortal visitors from across the multiverse.
At some point in time, control over Prismeer was stripped from Zybilna from her three hag stepsisters, known collectively as the Hourglass Coven. The coven split the domain into three distinct realms, each of which one of the sisters claimed as their own.