Quietude was one of two divine realms in the Great Wheel cosmology belonging to the Pharaonic and Mulhorandi goddess of marriage and magic, Isis.
This divine realm was located on Amoria, the first layer of the plane of Elysium. Another of her pantheons members, Seker, also kept his mobile realm of Ro Stau adjacent to Quietude most of the time.
Quietude was a rather large realm, consisting of a plateau several hundred feet tall. It had an arid plain and a warm, dry climate that was cooled by the River Serenity, whose waters acted as holy water. This river sprung from rocks on the plateau and plunged over its lip, losing its holy property as it left the realm, and eventually flowed into the River Oceanus.
Throughout the arid plains of Quietude were thick grasses, tall reeds, sturdy palm trees including date palms, and fig trees. Small lanterns hung on many of these trees, full of fireflies, lighting the shores of the realm and providing an ethereal glow to the smooth surface of the River Serenity.
Moon dog servitors roamed the plane, unleashing piercing howls to warn of unwanted intruders.
A single small town stood in the realm alongside the River Serenity, consisting of white stucco buildings, in which lived all of Isiss petitioners. There was also a temple to Isis in the village which, unbeknownst to most, contained a portal to the plane of Heliopolis.
The petitioners of this realm were all either married couples or wizards in life. Together they worked collectively towards gaining a better understanding of the multiverse and the vast secrets it contained. The wizards freely gifted their knowledge and spell keys to wizards that were good-aligned, in exchange for a simple task or some other magical knowledge. They would never gift to evil wizards and any who tried to steal a spell key would find it either didnt work or backfired. Neutral mages could purchase these things, but had to convince the seller that they wouldnt use them for evil purposes.
When the petitioners were not working towards these goals they tilled the fields of their village, weaved reeds into a variety of items, including clothes and mats, or harvested fruit from the trees. Overall their lives hadd most simple needs met, though their only metal equipment was bronze.
The people of this realm had little contact with the other layers of Elysium. But they were courteous to outsiders, especially to good-aligned mages, and held marriage in high esteem. Because of the latter, they customarily requested unmarried couples to sleep seperately and provided seperate accomodations for mixed-gender adventuring bands. This wasnt strictly enforced by the villagers, but they quietly disapproved of anyone who disobeyed it. Additionally, it was considered customary to ask for permission to use the holy water of the River Serenity. 
* Isis herself was found here whenever she was not attending to her duties in her other divine realm on Heliopolis.
* Sirian Goodwife, a proxy of Isis, lived in the village and kept the peace.