The Army of the North was a military that comprised soldiers, mages, and other combatants of numerous races, drawn from several tribes, nations, and city-states from all across the North of Faerûn. They banded together to face the growing threat posed by the phaerimm, after their release from the Sharn Wall in late 1371 DR.
The Army of the North was commanded by Laeral Silverhand, chosen of Mystra and Lady of Waterdeep. the dwarven leader Skarn Brassaxe,
Some of the fiercest and most renowned fighting forces from across the Sword Coast North, the Silver Marches and beyond joined cause to defend their lands from the highly destructive phaerimm. The allied forces included volunteer soldiers from Waterdeep, members of the Knights in Silver from Silverymoon, Slugsmashers from Citadel Adbar, Sundabaran mercenaries Bloodaxe Company, and Vaasan warriors from the far-eastern Cold Lands.
The Army of the North began as a small relief force that came together on Nightal 30 of the . Some twenty Waterdhavian warriors and wizards Joined Laeral on a dangerous mission to Rocnest to help her fellow chosen Khelben Arunsun and the elven high mages within. After teleporting to the ruined elven outpost, the group managed to kill a few phaerimm but were pushed back to the Marsh of Chelimber. It was there that Laeral made first contact with the Princes of Shade.
By Mirtul of the , the Army of the North had grown to its full strength. The army remained mired in downpour rain within the High Moor, poised to face the phaerimm in the greatest conflict either side had seen in over four months of fighting.
The Army of the North fought their next engagement against the phaerimm army, forces composed of bugbears, mind flayers, and beholders, on Mirtul 15 while crossing the Winding Water. With Boareskyr Bridge flooded due to unusual downpours, the Army of the North resorted to fighting in unfavorable conditions. As Uthgardt warriors and other soldiers crossed the waters atop rafts, hippogriff riders, war wizards and other aerial combatants fended off the incoming phaerimm and their minions. The fighting was long and arduous but the Army of the North emerged victorious. The Shadovar were notably absent from the engagement however, having withdrawn from their alliance following a disastrous council with the Lords of Waterdeep and other regional leaders.
By the 19 of the month, the full force of the army had reached the Forest of Wyrms. Tired of an endless march that led to excessive casualties, Laeral had her mages translocate the entirety of their forces from the forest way to the Greycloak Hills. They appeared just beyond the shadowshell, They accomplished this magnificent feat of in a matter of hours, by means of expertly timed marches into a well-placed teleportation circle. The Army of the North was perfectly positioned to finally relieve the beleaguered Evereskan defenders, and managed to slay 20 or so phaerimm in a few days time.
This maneuver surprised both the armys Shadovar allies along with the phaerimm themselves the latter of whom believed the Army of the North still remained over  to the southwest.