Aglarond
| enemies        = 
| relrefs        = 
| showmembers    = yes
| orgname        = the Brotherhood of the Griffon
The Brotherhood of the Griffon was a mercenary company led by Aoth Fezim. The organization took its name from its griffon riders.  Although the Brotherhood was best known for its griffon riders, they had companies of archers and spearmen as well.
The Brotherhood was a continuation of Aoths Thayan Griffon Legion.
In the years after the Spellplague of 1385 DR, Aoth founded the Brotherhood in Aglarond. The Brotherhood worked for Aglarond but, when Aoth learned of Szass Tams plan to conduct the Ritual of Unmaking, the Brotherhood broke their contract with Aglarond, even going so far as to fight their former employers.
Aoth led the Brotherhood and the Zulkirs forces into Thay in the , where they successfully disrupted Szass Tams ritual, possibly saving Toril from destruction.
After defeating Szass Tam, later that year, Aoth led the Brotherhood to Impiltur where they took a contract to eliminate a cult of demon worshipers. But the Brotherhood was betrayed by a noble and were unable to save a village from destruction by the cult. Because of their failure, they were dismissed from their employment in Impiltur.
After the disaster in Impiltur, the only employment the Brotherhood could find was with a noble from Luthcheq in Chessenta. There had been a series of mysterious murders in the city and the noble was concerned that the city militia was unable to maintain order. Aoth and the Brotherhood tracked down and killed the murderers, finding them to be abishai disguised as dragonborn.
Two officers in the Brotherhood discovered Tchazzar imprisoned in the Shadowfell. They rescued Tchazzar and he returned to Chessenta to reclaim his throne.
Shortly after Tchazzars return, Threskel invaded Chessenta in the . The Brotherhood lifted the siege of Soolabax and were key to defeating the Threskelan forces in two battles that ended the war and forced Threskel to become a vassal state of Chessenta.
After Alasklerbanbastos was destroyed, Aoth and Cera Eurthos, a priestess of Amaunator, took the dracolichs phylactery and resurrected his soul in the body of a young blue dragon. During questioning, Alasklerbanbastos revealed that he and Tchazzar were participants in the draconic game of Xorvintaal and that Tchazzar was attempting to conquer the human lands on the southern side of the Sea of Fallen Stars to score points. Tchazzar intended to manipulate Akanûl into joining forces with Chessenta to invade Tymanther.	  
In order to prevent the war, Aoth and Cera traveled to Akanûl to convince Queen Arathane not to ally with Tchazzar.  At the same time another officer, Khouryn Skulldark, journeyed to High Imaskar to ask the Imaskari to ally with Tymanther.  Both groups were successful in their missions but Tchazzar continued to plan his invasion of Tymanther.
Tchazzar later learned of the Brotherhoods manipulations and attacked Aoths forces, setting off the Battle of Luthcheq. The Brotherhood of the Griffon, along with allied Akanûlan troops and Chessentans loyal to Shala Karanok, defeated Tchazzars forces and killed Tchazzar.
The Brotherhoods success against Tchazzar redeemed their reputation as a mercenary troop. Because of the political instability of the southern Sea of Fallen Stars, Aoth intended to keep the Brotherhood in Chessenta in the hopes of future income.
* Aoth Fezim warmage leader of the Brotherhood
* Jhesrhi Coldcreek the Brotherhoods most powerful mage
* Gaedynn Ulraes archer and officer
* Khouryn Skulldark dwarf warrior and officer