House Cadorna was an old  textile merchant family from Phlan with its roots in the Dragon Reach region.
The cold iron Cadorna family sword was a family heirloom passed along from one generation to the next.
thumb|The 420x420px
The Cadorna family was brought to prominence by Magnus Cadorna some four generations before the mid-14 century DR. Back when the clan lived in obscurity, it was nothing but a small family of humble weavers from the Dragon Reach. The family business suffered greatly when their home and its surrounding lands became plagued by a red dragon. The familys eldest son, Magnus Cadorna, joined the local militia assembled to fight the winged wyrm, or at least to control and minimize the red menaces ransacking. Eventually, adventurers flocked to slay the dragon, and the militia waited in reserve. Unsurprisingly, the adventurers failed, but not before the dragon was wounded. Enraged, the wyrm decided to rain fire on the village that aided the adventurers. Most of the militia was slain by the dragon Magnus Cadorna was the only man standing, desperate and badly hurt. The man managed to drive the dragon back and finished the dragon off with a fatal blow.
The feat made Magnus Cadorna a hero of the Dragon Reach, and his family received money and accolades that elevated the Cadorna clan to a position of power. Soon enough, members of the now greatly respected Cadorna family spread across the Dragon Reach region, forming a profitable textile trading company.
On the fifteenth anniversary of the dragons death, the comparative Cadorna family sword was forged and presented to Magnus Cadorna, now an eighty-two years old man. Magnus was thankful but considered the gesture quite silly. The blade would remain with the Cadorna family, passed from father to son for four generations until it eventually left the "dragon killer" familys possession.
Sometime before the , when the city of Phlan on the Moonsea fell to monstrous attacks, the Cadorna family were the masters of the leading cloth and textile guild that operated in the city. Eugenia Cadorna, then young leader of the guild fled the falling city, taking his family and the wealth. Coin and valuables that the family was unable to take were stashed away in the Cadorna Textile House of Old Phlan.
The swords last Cadorna owner was Porphyrys Cadorna, a son of Eugenia Cadorna, the Cloth Merchant of Phlan, born in "exile" from Phlan. He was raised listening to his fathers embittered stories of the familys lost grandeur and withered wealth, all caused by Eugenias poor decisions and failures. When both his parents died, Porphyrys, guided by the dreams of his parents, joined the efforts of reclaiming and rebuilding Phlan. The infamous man climbed the political ranks in New Phlan until he became a member of the Council of Ten sometime before the .
In the , a group of adventurers known as the Heroes of Phlan ventured through one of the dreaded pools of darkness into a strange plane only known as the Dark Dimenson, allegedly created by Bane or an impostor of the deity. There, they entered the dark, otherworldly reflection of Phlan. Porphyrys Cadornas dark echo, an undead creature, was ruling the city under the balor named Gothmenes.
By the , Porphyrys lived in shame of his deeds and was responsible for his familys humiliation and almost complete ruination. In 1351 DR, he entrusted the family sword to the familys trusted bodyguard – Skullcrusher. Porphyrys never produced offspring, and that ended his branch of the family.
By the late 15 century DR, the Cadorna family was once again in the position of power in Phlan. The merchant family, along with Houses Sokol, Jannarsk, and Bivauntm ruled Phlan alongside the Lord Protector Anivar Daoran.