| disbanded      = 
| basicrefs      = 
| members        = 
| memberstable   = 
| memtableheader = 
| alignment      = 
| races          = Calishites
| memrefs        = 
| allegiances    = 
| enemies        = Ylveraasahlisar
| relrefs        = 
| showmembers    = yes
| orgname        = the Cajaan Dynasty
The Cajaan Dynasty was the second of four dynasties of the Third Age of Calimshan.
The members of this dynasty were among the nobility of Calimshan before their rise to power.
While remaining priest-rulers like the bakkals before them, the leaders of the Cajaan Dynasty were the first of the Calishite rulers to use the title of "Pasha" as the official name for the caleph of Calimshan.
Their seat of power was located in the city of Calimport.
The symbol used by the Cajaan Dynasty was a fiery sun pierced by three arrows pointing down and to the left.
The Cajaans re-instituted the worship of the One Sun, a sun deity first acknowledged by the Erehnir Dynasty and worshiped by the Vahlen Dynasty.
Trade with Netheril was common during their rule, particularly with the Netherese city of Tzindylspar, the City of Rubies. Rubies flowed freely into Calimshan and were coveted by rich Calishite nobles, who even used the gems as currency.
During their rule, the Cajaans also established an emir as ruler over the northern territories of Tethyr. The emir was traditionally the third son of the ruling pasha. the emir would rule from that city.
The Cajaans began their rule by enhancing the defenses of the nation, but as the dynasty drew on, they grew lax and dismissive of threats to their power.
During the time of the Cajaan Dynasty, the humans of Calimshan first began adapting the technology of the bow from the elves. Prior to this, the humans only used atlatls, spears, and iron swords. Having acquired a few captured elven longbows, they developed shorter versions that could be used from horseback or from chariots.
* Rafak el Cajaan, the dragonslayer who led the assault against the Rose Dragon.
* Nadim el Cajaan, a sorcerer-prince who led a small army to conquer the Netherese city of Tzindylspar.
* Violir el Cajaan IX, the dynastys final ruler.
The Cajaan dynasty began when a band of human dragonslayers from the Cajaan family, drove Ylveraasahlisar the Rose Dragon from her throne in Calimport in . However, there was infighting among them as to who would take the throne for eighteen years, until finally, in , the last surviving male heir established himself as pasha of Calimport and the supreme ruler of the nation of Calimshan.
In , the same year that the syl-pashas third son became the emir of Tethyr, Calishite nobles began hunting elves for sport. War erupted with the elves of the Forest of Tethir in , who grew tired of being hunted for sport. Battles between the elves and the Calishites of the  emirate of Tethyr would continue until well after the fall of the dynasty.
The dynasty also had to deal with slave uprisings and civil war in its northern emirates.
Battles with the Alimir Hive of beholders had been ongoing since before the dynasty began and continued throughout this time. In , one of these battles started a fire that consumed the eastern Darthiir Woods—later called the Forest of Mir—reducing it in size to the borders it would hold until the 14 century DR.
It was the beholders who ended the dynasty. In , the beholders led an army of goblins and ogres and successfully conquered every city of Calimshan and Iltkazar. Pasha Violir IX believed that the One Sun would save his kingdom, but he was turned into stone on the steps of his temple in Calimport. The beholder mage Qyraaptir then "sat" on the throne of Calimport.
Cajaan Sabban in Grand Ward of Calimport was named for this dynasty. The sabban mark was the fiery symbol used by the dynasty.