The Celtic pantheon, formerly known as the Tuatha De Danann, one of the most adaptable and influential in all the Outer Planes. A number of its members were known of or worshiped in the Realms.
The members of this pantheon largely resembled humans. They had a reputation among some as being dark and brooding, but in actuality were much more carefree compared to most pantheons. To varying extents its members all loved beauty, knowledge, and life. They also highly valued cunning, hospitality, song, and strength. But above all they preached freedom of choice to their followers and respect for nature.
As a whole the members of this pantheon were incredibly inclusive and tolerant of others. This was to such an extent that they didnt even demand total loyalty from their worshipers and they were willing to welcome most any deity into their pantheon, so long as they shared those aforementioned basic attitudes.
When it came to establishing themselves on other worlds, the Celtic gods were willing to adapt themselves to fit niches similar to their own portfolios.
With some exceptions, the members of this pantheon chiefly resided in the divine realm of Tir na Og in the Outlands, with each of them maintaining a separate divine realm within its borders that had their own peculiarities.
The deity Arawn resided on the island of Annwn, amidst a vast ocean in Niflheim, where the pantheons disreputable petitioners were sent. Belenus and Brigantia jointly ruled the divine realm of the Isles of the Blessed in Elysium, where heroes who sought to do good in their lives were sent. it was part of a lake at the base of the Spire.
thumb|Arawn the Dark One
Arawn The Celtic god of life and death.
Belenus The Celtic god of heat, the light, and the sun.
Brigantia The Celtic goddess of livestock and rivers.
Cerunnos Also known as the Master of the Hunt, was an archfey and the Celtic god of hunting, who brought a haunting phenomenon known as the Wild Hunt to any land where the pantheon was worshiped. Or sicked it upon anyone foolish enough to muck about with the freedom of Tir na Og.
Creidhne Once a lesser deity of craftsmen, this god became a proxy of Goibhniu after they gave up their power to raise him to an intermediate power.Nowhere is it stated that Creidhne and Luchta were lesser deities. However, because Goibhniu was previously listed in 1 editions Deities and Demigods as a lesser deity, his rise in status in the 2 edition source On Hallowed Ground is interpreted to mean that Creidhne and Luchta were both equivalently lesser deities.
Daghdha Also known as the dozen king, was the Celtic god of weather and the head of the pantheon.
Diancecht The Celtic god of healing and medicine.
Dunatis The Celtic god of mountains.
 Epona The Celtic goddess of horses. Namesake and rumored mother of the nicEpona.
Goibhniu The Celtic god of healing and smithing. He was once part of a trinity of craftsmen gods with Creidhne and Luchta.
Herne A corrupted incarnation of the Master of the Hunt.
Luchta Once a lesser deity of craftsmen, this god became a proxy of Goibhniu after they gave up their power to raise him to an intermediate power.
Lugh The Celtic god of art, commerce, and travel.
Manannan Mac Lir The Celtic god of the ocean.
Math Mathonwy The Celtic god of magic.
OghmaThe Celtic god of art and knowledge.
RosmertaThe relatively unknown Celtic goddess of wealth and material possessions.
SilvanusThe Celtic god of forests and nature.
According to ancient legends, the Celtic pantheon began with many members being born to a goddess known as Danu on a fabled island, but no evidence of her existence could be found. The Believers of the Source claimed that she had likely moved on to a form of existence even greater than that of the deities, perhaps becoming an overgod.
Other legends claimed that the Celtic gods sprang forth from nature itself.
Over the course of the planet of Torils history, there were waves of planar immigrants that came from a rugged land on another world with a culture tied to nature, the sea, and the warrior history of its dozen-king greater god. These brought their own societies and the worship of the Celtic gods, such as Herne and Oghma. One wave settled in the kingdom of Bakar, in the city of Medinat Muskawoon. There they constructed temples to the Celtic gods, such as Dunatis. While another, later wave of planar immigrants from the same rugged land would settle around the time of the rise of Netheril.
In later centuries Oghma would go on to join the Adama and Faerûnian pantheons, while Sylvanus would join him in the latter Faerûnian, with both deities having established themselves on Toril due to being pushed out of powers among the Celts. Herne would go on to be worshiped by orc tribes in northwest Faerûns High Forest.
When establishing themselves on Prime Material worlds, the Celtic pantheon was known to take in deities from a worlds local pantheon or to join those pantheons themselves. This thereby ensured the Celtic pantheons own continued growth and survival.
The location of Tir na Og attracted some tension (for the reason why, see the "Worshipers" section), but the pantheon did its best to remain neutral in planar affairs, albeit with some exceptions. The goddess Morrigan also got involved with the Blood War on occasion, sending her proxies to whip the fiends into a fighting frenzy.
Some individuals in this Pantheon were not directly worshiped on Toril, though they did have relations with deities that were. For instance, many of them were on good terms with Sheela Peryroyl and Bahamut. And Daghda was fervent friends with trickster deities, such as Erevan Ilesere and Garl Glittergold, 
The Olympian pantheon were considered their primary rivals due to its opposing, insular nature. The head of the Celtic pantheon, Daghdha, thought the Olympians werent any match for them and that they were too full of themselves and Zeus forbid the Olympians from fraternizing with the Celtic gods. Though not all members of either pantheon felt animosity. For example, Goibhniu had a secret friendship with Apollo and often compared notes or skills with Hephaestus, though the latter was sometimes his rival.
When it came to the Norse pantheon, Odin sometimes acted as a mediator between the Celtic and Olympian powers. Though at other times, he would send Loki to cause mischief among them.
The Celtic pantheon was as often served by druids as by clerics, for they were closely aligned with the forces of nature. Their religious services were performed in groves consecrated by the planting of holly and mistletoe.
Due to Tir na Og being situated in the Outlands, a plane that touched all of the Outer Planes, the divine power of this pantheons priests wasnt hindered anywhere in the Great Wheel. This made them quite popular among planar travelers. The location, as well as the pantheons adaptable and inclusive nature, all contributed to them being quite prominent across the Prime Material plane.
Some halfling druids on Toril worshiped Daghdha, Lugh, or Sylvanus. Though this was not a common practice.
On the Elemental Plane of Water, Manannan Mac Lir was one of the many ajami ocean gods that marids had a shrine to within the Citadel of Ten Thousand Pearls.The word "ajami" in general means "outlander" in the Midani language.