The Church of Akadi was a collection of free-spirited crusaders, mystics, shamans, and specialty priests called airwalkers devoted to Akadi, the Lady of the Winds. 
All of the clerics within the Church of Akadi were airwalkers. Regular clerics were found in the church before the Time of Troubles, but only specialty priests remained after. It remained unclear why this was the case. Several orders of mystics and crusaders developed in order to help the airwalkers. The sects of Akadis faithful among the Tuigan were led by shamans.
The faithful of Akadi were separated into the "Whisper" and the "Roar." These categories did not serve as rank nor separate factions, rather they served to display the philosophy of action for the priest. Whispers acted behind the scenes while Roars were upfront with their affairs.
The church as a whole was organized into many small cliques, each of which followed a particularly charismatic airwalker. The constant changing within the cliques were very fluid and often confusing to outsiders.
Novices were referred to as fledglings. Fledglings were only considered to be full priests after participating in a ritual witnessed by at least two other priests that involved flying. Titles within the church in ascending order were Winged One, Air of the Goddess, Breeze of Light, Zephyr, Mistral, Sirocco, and Whirlwind. Any priest who slew an agent of Grumbar was awarded the additional title of "High."
thumb|A priestess of Akadi in the ceremonial garb of the church.|499x499px
Akadians were encouraged to learn how to play a wind instrument in order to honor their goddess. Most Akadians preferred to wander around versus settling in one place. This allowed them to spread the word of Akadi to all corners of the world.
Upon reaching a certain skill level, airwalkers participated in a ceremony called the Fellowship of Flight where they summoned their first air elemental and honored it with gifts and praise before sending it back home.
Very few actual permanent structures were erected in Akadis name. Instead, the clergy preferred to wander the Realms in pursuit of their own goals. The first and most holy temple to Akadi was the First Shrine of the Queen of Air found in the ruins of Blaskaltar in the Shaar. The temple itself was a ruined mound as of the , but all of Akadis clergy met here annually to honor their fallen and remember the ways of the past.
The teachings of the Church of Akadi stressed finding ones own enlightenment. The faithful were encouraged to explore their interests as well as the world to pursue their dreams. The church was confident that any resistance to their doctrines would be eroded over time. It was considered a grave crime to fetter or otherwise imprison one faithful to Akadi.
A group of Akadian crusaders called the Knights of the Winds Four Quarters completed quests from Akadian elders and fought the faithful of Grumbar. Several other orders of Akadian mystics existed that were grouped by their morals with the Companions of the Summer Wind being good, the Disciples of Springs Breeze being neutral, and the Alliance of Midwinters Teeth being evil.