The Church of Lliira () was the primary religious organization dedicated to the worship and service of Lliira, the Joybringer and Mistress of Revels.
Lliirans believed that every individual had an ability, potential and talent. They celebrated diversity and life in all its form, which often lead to acts of hedonism. They believed it was their duty to spread joy wherever and whenever possible, brightening the hearts and minds of individuals both inside and outside of their faith. If it was possible to provide amusement or comfort to a saddened individual, they would pursue it. Going so far as to invite their foes, outlaws, as well as exiled and shunned individuals to their festivals.
Followers of the church typically tried to avoid having any violence at their celebrations, especially any that led to bloodshed, as doing so would lead Lliira to withhold her blessing.
Most converts from the Church of Waukeen sought to work within the wide boundaries of the Church of Lliiras expected behaviors and responsibilities, but considered themselves to be wiser than most members of the clergy and felt that their methods would ultimately prove the most effective in bringing happiness to the most people. However, most members of the clergy considered the converts to be conservative bureaucrats that were gradually learning to "let go."
The presence of the Waukeenar converts within the Church of Lliira gradually led to a mild toning down of hedonistic behavior. Members of the clergy became mildly more responsible and mercantile. But the greatest change to come about was the development of a strong regard for preserving personal freedoms.
Clerics, mystics, specialty priests, and spellsingers in the Lliiran faith were all known as "Joybringers" until 1365 DR, when members of the clergy became confused by the naming scheme. From that year onward the specialty priests were distinguished by the title of "Joydancer." 
The clergy referred to each other as "Brother" or "Sister," while referring to themselves as the "True."  Novices and laity in the church were referred to as the "Tested," while nonbelievers were known as the "Unseeing." Those who were leaders of temples were addressed as "Master" of Revels. Revelmistress was also once a popular title for leaders among the clergy, but following the Time of Troubles it became outlawed by decree of the goddess herself. 
When many members of the Church of Waukeen converted to the Lliiran faith after 1365 DR, some were reluctant to let go of their old titles. Eventually, many came to let go of them and fully embraced their new churchs organization.
The Church of Lliira had no strictly organized hierarchy or chain of command. Temples universally respected clergy members from other temples as envoys, Religious communities of Lliira were never known to be subservient to any other.
The Church of Lliira had no knightly order until after the Time of Troubles, when  High Revelmistress of the city of Selgaunt, Chlanna Asjros, was murdered by a local cult of Loviatar. It had several honorary orders dedicated to celebrating excellence in dancing.
Knightly orders
* Scarlet Mummers One of the churchs first knightly orders, the Mummers were formed to avenge the murder of Lliiras High Revelmistress in Selgaunt. Their duties included protecting Lliiran temples and battling with Loviatans. Their battle prowess caused their fellows in the church to both fear and respect them.
Other orders
* Order of the Leaping Stag
* Order of the White Violet
* Festbringers
* Prophitprophets - a Sembian sect of the Church of Waukeen which, following the Time of Troubles refused to believe that their deity was dead, even though at the time the Church of Waukeen was functionally a branch of the Church of Llira, and all Waukeenar (clergy of Waukeen) received their divine spells and abilities from Lliira. Although technically speaking the Profitprophets were a Waukeenar sect, in fact they were a Lliiran sect from the time of their formation soon after the Time of Troubles until the factual return of Waukeen on the 24th of Nightal, 1370 DR.
The clergy of the Lliiran faith were often known for performing impromptu dances, telling jokes, and either imitating or lampooning others (but never with an intent of malice), as part of their quest to bring happiness to people. For similar reasons, they were also known to spend lavish amounts of money on gifts or feasts, especially for the poor and needy. If ever questioned about their methods of distributing offerings among the needy a Joybringer was more than happy to explain, that way if the individual fell on hard times themselves they would know who or where to go for aid. Because of these charitable efforts, the wills of poor peasants often leave some of their money to the church.
The Church frequently sponsored many festivals and parties as part of their quest of uplifting the downtrotten and disheartened. For similar reasons, worshipers within the Church also tended to perform many good deeds throughout their day.
Joydancers typically sought to hold parties or celebrations, both big and small, whenever they could. They were experts at organizing them, pacing them, subtly controlling crowds, setting up costumes and decorations, organizing refreshments, as well as the establishment of a proper mood.  Because of this they were often hired by nobility, the wealthy, and courtiers to put on events. Around twenty percent of their earnings from this were expected to be shared with the church. When not throwing parties they often trained dancers and acrobats, sold and rented out costumes, and did catering.
The greatest among them at diplomacy would seek out rulers and wealthy merchants to espouse to how beneficial the Church of Lliira is at keeping commoners happy, which most perceptive rulers and merchants would notice firsthand. This often leads to a regular stream of large donations to the church. The Church of Lliira was also known to earn money by hosting grand galas.
*Lliiras Night A festival holiday held annually on 7 of Flamerule that honored the eponymous goddess. It began in the city of Waterdeep, but by the late 15 century the celebration had spread all across the Sword Coast.
The temples of this church varied widely in style, but were typically opulent and built around a large meeting facility, party room, or ball room. These divided off into a number of smaller conference rooms, bars, rooms dedicated to socializing, and rooms to nap in when one has overindulged in alcohol. Upper floors usually held comfortable apartments for the clergy to live in.
Temples often featured crystal chandeliers, floors of a parquet or mosaic style, velvet draperies, artistically painted mirrors, and well-stocked oak bars. The doors of both temples and shrines were emblazoned with either the Church of Lliiras official symbol or a special symbol - a fat log on a fire - that was accompanied by an illusionary smell of cinnamon or roasting meat. The latter symbol was most frequently seen on altars or temple doors.
The Church of Lliira was known to be quite popular among the inhabitants of Hillsfar, Chondath, Cormyr, Sespech, and the Vilhon Reach.
In more evil or uncivilized regions, where having a lighthearted nature could lead to ones death, the Lliiran faith was often suppressed. However, the suppression of their faith only encouraged Lliirans to seek out such regions, making them determined to spread joy to its inhabitants.
The greatest center of Lliiras worship was the Palace of Holy Festivals in Selgaunt.
Lliirans typically learned to use their dancing as a form of unarmed combat, a spectacle that many considered to be quite beautiful.
A priest of Lliira wearing the typical vestments of his faith.
Members of this churchs clergy, regardless of sex, often wore their hair long either flowing free or bound up in any manner of hairdo. Their vestments consisted of a skin-tight outfit with a plunging neckline, divided into unequal sections of the colors orange, yellow, and red. This was worn alongside a sleeveless robe of a similar color scheme. When many members of the Church of Waukeen converted to the Lliiran faith after 1365 DR, some were reluctant to let go of their prior faiths way of dressing, but eventually many let go and fully embraced their new churchs vestments. 
When it was not possible for an adventuring worshiper to wear clothing or armor of this color scheme they typically opted for a similarly colored cloak, even if the colors were just present through piping.
Members of the church were also known to adorn themselves with elaborate earrings as well as anklets, braclets, chain belts, and cosmetics.
Several divine spells, prayers, and other forms of magic were closely linked to priests of Lliira
*Bliss
*Candle of Calm
*Deadly dance
*Lliiras Laugh
The Church of Lliiras clergy was renowned throughout Faerûn for their easy going and good-hearted nature, making them some of the most popular clerics in the continent, even among those who felt that their goddess represented nothing more than empty-headed hedonism. They were also known to have a strong reputation as being party animals, some of the best party throwers in the continent, and one of the best priesthoods when it came to perceiving the needs of others and governing themselves accordingly to best comfort them.
The Church of Lliira was known to have strong ties to the Harpers organization,
In 1365 DR, a prophet of the church was transported by Lliira to the gate of every temple dedicated to the then-absent goddess Waukeen. He was was instructed to tell the worshipers there-in of Waukeens uncertain status and that Lliira would be acting as regent for Waukeens portfolio until she returned, answering any prayers for spells. Many of the Waukeenar, distraught and panic stricken, interpreted this to mean that their goddess was truly dead and turned to the faith of Lliira, rededicating their temples to her.
In the region of Amn, the Goldspires temples priests were the among the first to accept the declaration of Lliiras regency over the Church of Waukeen. Her regency led to the Lliiran faith becoming more prominent in the region over time. Its popularity grew to the point that it threatened to supplant the worship of Sune among the hedonistic upper classes in the cities of Athkatla and Esmeltaran.
The flamboyant high societies of Amn and Sembia gradually became more prominent due to Joydancers covertly encouraging local rivalries between party hosts. As a result increasingly florid clothing, as well as increasingly expensive feasts and revels, became more popularized in those nations.