2e = 
The church of Mask, also known as the Circle of the Gray Ribbon,In Faiths & Avatars the Circle of the Gray Ribbon is an order of elite Maskarran thieves that achieved some level of notoriety. Ed Greenwood Presents Elminsters Forgotten Realms includes the Circle of the Gray Ribbon an alternate name for the collective church as a whole. Due to the 100+ year difference between the two sourcebooks, both ideas are not mutually exclusive to one another. was the collective of individuals across the Realms that venerated Mask, the Lord of Shadows and Faerûnian god of trickery and deceit. While the church was viewed by many as mere scatterings of thieves and charlatans, the Maskarran faith was of the wealthiest churches in all Faerûn. They managed to achieve this feat despite operating primarily beyond the reach of lawfulness and in the shadows of civilized society.
Masks collective church was separated into individual priesthoods, each of operated independently in cities across Faerûn. These autonomous entities carried out unrelated operations to ensure thieves of different guilds did not interfere with neighboring enterprises. In those cities where multiple guilds conducted business within close proximity of each another, holy sites of Mask were considered neutral territory for everyone involved.
The extensive network of the Maskarran church comprised countless regional organizations and independent operators. Information and secrets flowed freely between various parties only to the extent that head clergy members deemed necessary. Their direction allowed church operations to best align with the ever-shifting landscape of religious and governmental politics.
Maskarran clergy members were known colloquially as Darkfingers, but referred to each other as Brother/Sister Shadow regardless of their ranks.
Titles held by Maskarran clergy included
* Lord/Lady Master, the leader of a given temple.
* Hidden Ones, high priests of the church.
* Master Brother/Sister
* Veteran Brother/Sister
* Proven Brother/Sister
* Unproved, novices within the church.
thumb|right|250px|A divine seeker of Mask.
When partaking in the larcenous arts, Maskarrans most preferred to steal valuable gems, as they were the absolute ideal offerings to the Lord of Shadows. Stealing these gems and replacing them with valueless replicas was considered the highest form of their craft. The longer the exchanged went undetected, the more perfect the crime in Masks eyes.
Local priesthoods of Mask worked diligently to support their partnered thieves guilds. Among the services and assets they provided were pre-fabricated disguises, agents acting spies and informants, or the protection and seclusion of certain individuals, for a specified time. These church-sponsored boons were always granted for nominal fees, which were offered on top of the tithings regularly collected from the guilds.
If it was deemed necessary, Maskarran priests released large amounts of currency from their reserves into local economies. This was often done to manufacture increased costs of goods or spur inflation in certain cities or regions.
While Mask held domain over the portfolio of intrigue, Maskarran priests regularly participated in local politics. They wove intricate tapestries of lies, deceit, and misappropriation to cast a shroud over the other crimes their fellow faithful committed. Masks followers were not above thrusting a whole realm into outright war if it would foster an environment of advantageous lawlessness.
While not held on a regular date on the Calendar of Harptos, the Ritual of the Unseen Presence was held at least once per month in each of Masks temples. During this ceremony, clergy members conceded to Mask the wealth in currency they had acquired and melted it down before their temples Altar of the Masked God. This ritual, along with the churchs darker rites, were always performed under the protection of conjured striking shadows.
The ritual of Shadow Walking was a sacred Maskarran ceremony by which one of the Shadowlords faithful could attune their physical body to shadow itself. By performing this rite, they exchanged a portion of their life essence, and became what were known as shadow-walkers.
Some folks including pickpockets and other petty criminals would wear Masks purse, in clear view on their person. These simple pouches held a few coins that made easy targets for other thieves. The loss or acquisition of one of Masks purses was seen as a small gift from the God of Thievery, or a sacrifice made to him in tribute.
Maskarran clerics offered prayer at night, when under the cloak of darkness, or during times of need. A courtier appearing before a noble court or even a member of a political envoy would beseech Masks favor to ensure favorable discussions.
During the daily Sunset Prayers, Maskarran clergy offered coins to their immediate superiors within the churchs hierarchy, beginning with the Unproven. Once the Lord or Lady Master received their tribute, they presented it before the lowest-ranking clergy member as a token of appreciation for Masks sardonic sense of humor.
While not a Maskarran holiday by any means, celebrants of Liars Night often offered tribute to Mask and wore face coverings that resembled his holy symbol.
Priests of Masks eschewed mere pickpocketing or burglary for more daring, large-scale heists, such as stealing every item within a single warehouse or an entire ship full of goods. They often masqueraded as mere peasants or priests of other faiths when carrying out their operations.
Spells unique to the Maskarran faith included dark way, listening shadow, shadowcloak, watching shadow, and striking shadows.
The Maskarran faith was prominent among criminals in many nations across Faerûn, including Telflamm in nation of Thesk Nearly every citizen of the city contributed in some way to the prosperity of the citys Shadowmasters. While many tieflings across the Realms turned to the worship of Mask in lieu of Asmodeus, the only recorded lineage of Maskarran tieflings originated from Thesk. many  
The faith was also quite popular in the eastern realm of Thay, as well as cities in nearby Unther and Mulhorand. It was notable that Mask was the only non-native deity to garner any following of note in Mulhorand.
Worship of Mask was prohibited in the otherwise tolerant realm nations of the Shining Lands.
While shrines to Mask could be found in many cities across the Realms, true temples only typically arose in cities that maintained fewer laws against thievery and burglary. Quite often these temples were constructed in hidden locales, with underground tunnels that granted easy access between them and their local thieves guildhouse.
Undistinguished temples of Mask could be found within Tilverton in Cormyr, Bezantur in Thay, and Westgate on the Dragon Coast. One long-forgotten shrine dedicated to Mask could be found deep within the lair of the spirit naga Ithkyxan, while at least one other was situated in the Street of White Roses in Bezantur.
Notable Maskarran temples included
* House of the Masters Shadows, in Telflamm the largest temple of Mask in all of Faerûn.
* Telamuzhidah, a major focal point for criminal activity in Calimport.
Collectively, Maskarran clergy held tremendous wealth stashed in secreted away caches. These riches were expertly directed to further the faiths agenda, whether by hiring skillful agents, bribing politicians, or other forms of solicitation. It was believed that only the church of Waukeen held more accumulated wealth within their coffers and among their holdings.
Individual priests were required to make an offering of a single valuable gem, coins, or trade bars equivalent of 2,000 gp to Masks Shadowed Altar every month.
As would be expected, clergy of Masks church often wore no specific vestments or insignias that could be used to identify their allegiance while operating beyond their temple. This was especially true among the faithful that took on the adventuring lifestyle. These adventuring Maskarrans―along with many demarches/esses preferring simple leather armor or unassuming clothes befitting common folk of the lands they traveled.
During ceremonies and other rituals, Maskarran clergy wore flamboyant, vibrantly-colored tunics with puffed-out sleeves and striking embellishment. This striking attire was then covered in drab, hooded gray cloak, with the priests face hidden behind a mask of black gauze. In lands where their faith was impinged upon, Masks priests wore their gray robes in public as mark of his favor, along with a black wool mask, tailor-made to hide their features.
Senior members of the church often sponsored acquisition of certain enchanted items that aided the priesthood with their daily activities. Notable among these were rings of invisibility, rings of shadow, ropes of entanglement, and slippers of spider climbing.
The Mask of Mysteries was a minorly enchanted silk mask that resembled those worn by Maskarran priests, but functioned as a type of arcane spellbook. Anyone wearing the mask that performed the correct actions to activate it, gained access to a select number of spells. It also smelled faintly of some unidentifiable spices.
Masks followers believed that any events that occurred "within shadow" fell under his domain.
Maskarran clergy held a dynamic view of property rights and ownership of belongings. A individual or organization only held right of possession
over assets so long as they remained in their physical possession.
Subtlety, caution, and discretion were virtuous held in the highest concern by the church. The ability to gain an edge over other with poised articulation―often utilizing feigned platitude―was considered a mark of distinction among clergy members. Integrity however was always maintained when working alongside other members of the church. Exemplary priests of Masks dutifully fulfilled the objectives proposed to their superiors within the church, even if numerous attempts were required for success.
While the church of Mask sponsored no knightly orders, a number of its more daring and calculating members joined the Circle of the Gray Ribbon.
The Night Masks of Westgate were one of the numerous thieves guilds of Faerûn that considered Mask as their patron deity. Yet others like the Shadow Thieves of Amn, merely venerated the Lord of Shadows in name only.
Priesthoods of Mask predominantly comprised thieves, clerics, and specialty priests known as demarches or demarchesses.
A priest of Mask that chose to work specifically in large, densely-populated cities could take on the role of a catfoot, whereas one that preferred to be out in the wilderness could join the ranks of the nightrunners.
In the , the Time of Troubles broke out across the Realms and the gods were sent down to Toril in mortal form. During that year, Mask took the form of a magical sword called Godsbane, which eventually fell into the possession of the mortal adventurer Cyric. At the culmination of those transformative events, Cyric ascended to godhood and took with him Masks dominion over intrigue. That shift in divine portfolios prompted Mask to redirect his followers efforts across the Realms. They would no longer involved themselves in political schemes or public plots and focus their deception to a more personal and individual scope. 
* Duromil, an unscrupulous adventurer from Waterdeep that lived a double life as a daring thief.
* Erevis Cale, Masks favored chosen that returned to service during the Second Sundering.
* Huriot, a particularly devious inventor and the most prolific Prince of Thieves of Skuld.
* Jalaunther Ithbreeiur, Lord Master of the Most Hidden, high priest of Telflamm.
* Kesson Rel, the first of Masks chosen, who turned to the worship of Masks mother Shar.
* Nathel Awbrunton, a Maskarran from Mordulkin that specialized in expert forgery.
* Orniiv Fanderfall, the one-time head of Shadow Thief operations in Baldurs Gate.
* Shabella the Pale, guildmistress of Masks temple in Bezantur.
* Shulgi, a former Cormyrean thief that became afflicted with vampirism and set to lead a thieves guild in Messemprar.