The Church of Bhaal was the religious organization that was devoted to the worship of the Lord of Murder, Bhaal.
273px|A symbol of Bhaal in the 15 century DR.
The clergy of the Lord of Murder were a disorganised group of evil priests and assassins. Priests of Bhaal were referred to as either Bhaalists, which was most common to the west of the Dragon Reach, or Bhaalyn, which was used to the east. In cities and towns, members of the Church of Bhaal were often clerics, whilst in far removed locations, they were usually deathstalkers.
High Primate/Primistress
Members of a specific faction (or an area) of the Church of Bhaal were always led by a High Primate of High Primistress.
Primate/Primistress
A Primate or Primistress was in charge of a specific fortress or temple, which were filled with assassins an agents.
First Murder
First Murders were assistants to Primates and Primistresses, and helped with sending agents to nearby settlements. In other faiths, such a role was known as a scion.
Cowled Death
Cowled Deaths, who occupied offices in the community, made up the senior clergy of the Church of Bhaal. Nine Cowled Deaths reported to each First Murder.
Deathdealer
Deathdealers formed the more common members of the Church of Bhaal, and were underneath the Cowled Deaths. They bore the title of Slaying Hand.
As expected, Bhaalists main activities consisted of preparing for and carrying out assassinations, hunting bounties, and straight up bloody murder. Such preparations included sourcing and maintaining weapons and other gear, training, journeying, and praying. Bhaalists generally put a lot of time into researching who to murder, as well as the location and time to commit it. High priority targets often included rivals, as well as victims who would be missed by the common folk this helped to rake in donations and other types of offerings. 
Bhaal did not just urge his clergy to carry out killings, but also to seek the wealth that came along with it.
Aside from holy killings, Bhaalists observed several rituals. Many were done privately, such as when a priest was planned to ascend to a high rank. In this instance, the member of the church would head out and perform a killing with only their bare hands. After completion, they would secretly inform a higher member of the church. The senior member would then organize a public ceremony, where all members would don their ceremonial outfits, and an honorary killing to Bhaal was made.
Days Farewell
A formal ritual that was taken part of by the entire clergy when the day drew to a close, as well as when a member set off for duty.
Feast of the Moon
This ritual was the only one of its type that was set to occur on a specific date. During the ritual feast, priests of Bhaal praised and discussed particularly unique or interesting kills, as well as remember those who had died in service to the Lord of Murder. One of the most retold story was that of Uthaedeols legendary murder of King Samyte of Tethyr.
right|The Temple of Bhaal underneath Baldurs Gate.
Urban members of the Church of Bhaal congregated in underground temples. Such temples were sometimes decorated in the theme of murder and death, from sculptures of a vicious murder, to mosaics. Many of these sites had rooms filled with multiple corpses (as well as tokens from the deceased), if the bodies could not be left at the site of the killing.
Rural members instead preferred to worship the Lord of Murder at ancient shrines and oblational altars. Such shrines were usually built atop infrequently-visited tops of hills, and were shaped in the symbol of Bhaal.
The most well-known base was the Tower of Swift Death in Thay. the Stronghold in Delimbiyr Vale (which formerly acted as a Bhaalist monastery), and the Temple of Bhaal in the Forest of Wyrms.
273px|A priest of Bhaal in deep black robes.
All Bhaalists, during ceremonies and other temple work, wore a combination of purple or black cowls and robes. Such garments were often streaked in violet, in a seemingly random combination. Every other part of their outfit would be black, including the interior and veil. Senior priests were known to add additions to their outfits, such as a red sash, so they would be identifiable during rituals in dim settings. Curved ceremonial daggers were utilized by all members of the church, though only the highest members of the clergy (as well as Brethren of the Keen Strike) would directly use them in their murderous acts.
When on a mission or quest, member of the Church of Bhaal usually wore full armor of high quality, in addition to black leggings and capes.
Bhaalists saw murder as not just a duty, but as pleasure. When they committed murder, they would make sure their victims knew that it was the Lord of Murder behind the killing. Each member strongly believed that every single murder they committed strengthened their master. They were required to kill once every tenday during the darkest time of the night. This was not always possible, as a Bhaalist could be incarcerated once released, they would have to make up for their killings twice over.
The Church of Bhaal supported many organizations that performed duties on behalf of the Lord of Murder.
Brethren of the Keen Strike
The Brethren of the Keen Strike were a society of which all speciality priests of Bhaal were included in.
Shadow Thieves of Amn
The Shadow Thieves were a deadly group of rogues, money-lenders, and assassins based in Crimmor, Amn.
Citadel of Assassins
The Assassins Guild of the Galenas were an organization of highly trained killers that was led by the Grandfather of Assassins.
A priestess of Bhaal leading a ceremony in front of a temples shrine.
In 1482 DR, the two final Bhaalspawn, Abdel Adrian and Viekang, engaged in a fight. The victor was transformed into the Slayer, Bhaal was reborn, and his church began to operate once more. As of the Second Sundering, Bhaal remained behind in mortal form as a quasi-deity, and his church became known as a "cult". Together with Myrkulytes and Banites, Bhaalists began to terrorize the Realms once more, particularly in Baldurs Gate. Reports claimed that the Lord of Murder was known to make visits to a secretive temple of this city in person.