| races          = 
| memrefs        = 
| allegiances    = 
| enemies        = 
| relrefs        = 
| showmembers    = 
| orgname        = 
The church of Shaundakul, also known as the Priests of the Helping Hand and the Seekers of the Trail, It was an ancient faith of Faerûn that diminished in influence over time, before enjoying a rebirth during the Era of Upheaval.
thumb|right|220px|"The holy symbol of Shaundakul.
While there was no formal structure or hierarchy to Shaundakuls church, though certain priests were held in higher esteem. Priests that served the god prior to the Avatar Crisis were especially venerated among all his worshipers.
Different priesthoods operated independently of each other, due in large part to their members shared passion for travel and intense feelings of wanderlust.
A loosely-structured ranking of titles were used within the Shaundakun church. These included Seeker of the Wind, Scout, Trailblazer, Explorer, Guide of the Hidden Ways, Rider of the West Wind, Rider of the South Wind, Rider of the East Wind, Rider of the North Wind, and Lord High Windhand.
Priests of Shaundakul did not promote their faith by preaching to non-believed, but rather through providing aid and protection to others. Shaundakun clergy forged bonds between the church and those wanderers and traders that explored the lands less-traveled. They served others as scouts, guards, and guides, often traveling alongside pilgrims, adventurers, and caravaneers for great lengths of their journeys. They were dedicated to reestablishing the shrines of Shaundakul across the Realms, many of which had been lost over centuries of neglect and disuse.
After Shaundakul took on the related divine portfolio, his clergy dedicated themselves to locating and identifying portals that would benefit the lives of people in the Realms. Over time they were even granted the power to merge themselves with portals and use the energy within to rejuvenate their bodies.
They were also known as purveyors of exceptionally accurate maps and trade ways for a nominal fee. They were far less forthcoming about information regarding known portals, and always at a much steeper price.
Members of the clergy performed simple prayers and ceremonies throughout their travels. They spoke a prayer to Shaundakul every instance the wind shifted suddenly, and erected a new shrines upon discovering uncharted landmarks or natural wonders.
Priests of Shaundakul prayed for their spells during the early hours of the morn, as the change in temperature caused the winds to stir.
The 15 of Tarsakh marked the Windride, a collective opportunity for each Shaundakun to assume the form of wind itself for the entire day. Shaundakul bolstered the magical ability of his priests so they could accomplish this feat.
The faith of Shaundakul was closely tied to the city of Myth Drannor in the Cormanthor forest. By the 14 century DR it was prominent throughout the vast wastes of Stonelands and Moonsea North, the frigid land of Thesk, the mysterious Great Dale, and the rustic Dalelands.
Due to the restlessness of his faithful, there were few permanent houses of worship dedicated to the Shaundakul found throughout the Realms. Smaller shrines―often formed stone daises surrounded by several stone pillars―were much more common, often located in more isolated and perilous stretches of wilderness.
The most prominent temple was Shaundakuls Throne, the fortified temple found in the city of Myth Drannor. It was a site of pilgrimage for Shaundakun priests, and was said to be watched over by the avatar of the god himself.
The settlement of Trailstone in Amn housed an establishment known as Shaundakuls Tavern, that was reportedly built atop the ruins of a Shaundakun temple.
Unnamed temples of Shaundakul could be found in the cities of Telflamm in Thesk, and Two Stars in the Easting Reach.
Notable shrines to Shaundakul included Lanthalass Requiem near the Stonebolt Trail, and an unnamed shrine in Everlund.
A lodestone special originating from a church of Shaundakul could be found at tavern in the caravan town of Trailstone in Cormyr.
thumb|right|300px|A priest of Shaundakul in ceremonial vestments.
Shaundakun priests wore simple cloths for both ceremonies and during travel. They were accented by a flowing cloak and a dark-purple or black gauntlet on their dominant hand, bearing Shaundakuls holy symbol.
They dressed in leather, studded leather, or chain mail armor, and preferred wielding greatswords and bows in combat.
Spells unique to the Shaundakun clergy included Favor of Shaundakul, shadow sword, gauntlet of winds, and dead magic shield.
The Knights of the Shadow Sword was an order of Shaundakun rangers and warriors that worked to cleanse the ruins of Myth Drannor from its evil denizens for centuries following the citys collapse.
A group of noble mercenaries known as the Riders of the West Wind traveled the Realms protecting caravans from bandits, raiders, or more malevolent organizations such as the Zhentarim. The Fellowship of the Next Mountain was an order that performed similar services for the people of the Moonsea North and Sword Coast North.
The church attracted many rangers and crusaders within its ranks. Specialty priests of Shaundakul were known as windwalkers, These free-spirited individuals learned to meld the winds themselves to hasten their travels across the Realms.
Priests occasionally quested alongside windghosts, bizarre-looking but docile aberrations that were dispatched by Shaundakul himself. Together they carried out missions important to the Rider and his faith.
Shaundakul was an ancient deity, having been present during the era of the Dawn Cataclysm when Tyche remained the sole goddess of fortune. It was prominent during the century before Dale Reckoning, when the Rus people still dwelled in the Unapproachable East.
Shaundakuls faith reached its apex during the time of ancient Myth Drannor which fell during the 8 century DR. and many of his followers turned to Mielikki and Waukeen.
The Time of Troubles, which occurred in the , was a transformative time for the Shaundakun faith. By the time the gods were restored to their homes in the cosmos, there remained only a half dozen priests of Shaundakul, each of whom had taken on the mantle of Windwalker.
Befitting his title and portfolio, Shaundakul was often worshiped by air genasi clerics of the Realms.
A few members of the of the Shaundakun clergy were known to be agents of the Harpers.
* Juxril Thammarcast, a Waterdhavian priest that held service within the Plinth.
* Maurith Slindaeryl, a young woman that lived in Elventree during the mid–14 century DR.
* Phelos Mistarn, the noted scholar of Dragonreach lore and history who lived in Hillsfar.
* Toom VariVul, high priest of Sphur Upra, a city that straddled both the Earthroot region of the Underdark and the Shadowfell.