Clan Brightblade was a dwarven clan that had resided in Daggerdale since before the founding of the human settlement of Dagger Falls.
The clan was led by its chieftain in most matters but the chief priest of Dumathoin also carried a great deal of authority in the clan. The degree to which their instructions were respected was evidenced when they commanded the rest of their clan to flee Eagles Eyrie when it was attacked by Mage-Lord Colderan Morn.
In Anathars Dell, the clan had extensive silver mines that they still worked as of 1370 DR.
The dwarves made ingenious traps to keep intruders away from their holdings and were highly adept at concealing their entrances.
For the most part, Clan Brightblade was based in Anathars Dell in southern Daggerdale.
The Brightblade dwarves were famed for their craftsmanship of jewels and had reputedly crafted a piece of such quality that it caused a dispute between them and the Morn family.
Before their defeat at the hands of Colderan Morn, the clan leader, Dorn the Grim, and the chief priest, Elshar Kurl, crafted the magic short sword, Olar, to defeat the mage-lord. The blade still lay in the hands of Dorn the Grim as of 1367 DR.
In the early history of Dagger Falls, the dwarves had a fine relationship with the humans that settled the small trading post near Eagles Eyrie until sometime in or before 1267 DR when they fell into a great dispute with the tyrannical mage-lord, Colderan Morn, over a perceived slight against his wife, Belesaria. This resulted in the dwarves being driven out of that part of the dale and the beginning of a feud between the Morn family and Brightblade dwarves. The blood feud was still evident as late as 1372 DR, even after Randal Morns reclamation of the Dale from the Zhentarim.
In southern Daggerdale, the Brightblade dwarves came to an arrangement with the wizard Anathar, who wished to build a tower where the later Anathars Hall was situated.
Since the fall of Tethyamar in the , when Dorn the Grims kinsman Belgin died and the dwarves were driven out, They eventually made a home for themselves in nearby Daggerdale, where they could mine silver in Anathars Dell and trade goods at Eagles Eyrie.
At some point, a wizard named Anathar came to the southern holdings of the Brightblade.
However, one cold day in autumn in or before 1267 DR,This is "At least 100 years ago" on page 32 of Doom of Daggerdale, which has a date of 1367 DR. the Brightblades peace with the Morn family came to an abrupt end when the dwarves refused to sell a prized jewel to Belesaria Morn, the proud wife of Mage-Lord Colderan Morn. Vengeful, Belesaria returned to her husband and told him that they had spurned and insulted her, and this drove the tyrannical mage-lord into a fit of rage. Colderan returned to the Brightblade dwarves and demanded that they grant him an enormous tribute of gold and forged steel as an apology, otherwise he would place a dire curse upon them. Although the dwarves stubbornly refused to give in to Colderans demands, they were well aware of his magical might. Therefore, the leaders of the clan, Chieftain Dorn the Grim and Head Priest Elshar Kurl, devised a plan to delay the mage-lord while the rest of their kin escaped towards the Mines of Tethyamar. Together they forged the magical short sword Olar and made their last stand at Eagles Eyrie. Despite their efforts however, Colderan managed to slay the champions and plundered Eagles Eyrie, though not before the bulk of their kin escaped.
Afterward, Clan Brightblade was all but driven out of Daggerdale and swore an oath of enmity against the Morn family, which was still enforced even as late as 1372 DR.
By 1480 DR, the Brightblade clan still worked the mines of Anathars Dell and had even begun gathering in larger numbers to reclaim Tethyamar again.
* Dorn the Grim, chieftain of the clan in the mid–1200s DR.
* Elshar Kurl, head priest of Dumathoin in the mid–1200s DR.
* Belgin
* Miira