The Cragmire family was one of the noble houses of Neverwinter in the early 14 century DR.
Although the Cragmire family was once allied with Neverwinters royal family, it also harbored a dark secret. Its members had formed a dark necromantic cult that schemed to take over Neverwinter and the entirety of the Sword Coast.
The Cragmire family had actually managed to raise a semblance of an undead army, but was never able to see their plan to fruition.
The Cragmire family held a keep located outside the city along the coast, on the High Road near Raven Cliff Beach. Their familial barrow was situated a short distance away from their keep, and elaborate network of crypts lay beneath the keep. Naturally, they conducted their necromantic work within these.
When the familys secret was revealed in the , the leaders of Neverwinter took immediate action. They dispatched the Neverwintan army to assault Cragmire Keep it was largely destroyed and every last member of the cult killed. The Cragmire family line was ended that day. However, the undead-filled crypt beneath was a far deadlier challenge. Soldiers and priests ventured inside to battle or purify them, but few came back, at least alive. Unwilling to lose more lives clearing them out, the Neverwintan leaders chose to have the barrow and crypts sealed by powerful magical enchantments, and trap the horde of undead that remained within.
The barrow and crypts remained untouched for one hundred and fifty years, but the seals were gravely weakened in the Spellplague of 1385 DR. Finally, in the late 1470s DR, they were broken by a Red Wizard named Kallos Tam, together with Malus and Traven Blackdagger, brother bandit leaders who fancied themselves as pirates. Kallos discovered certain artifacts within the crypt and the means to control the undead army. The Blackdaggers claimed the keep for their bandits and even renamed it, first Blackdagger Keep and later Grimstorm Keep.
In the , a party of adventurers tasked with battling the Blackdaggers invaded the old Cragmire keep and crypt, fought their way through the bandits and remaining undead army and defeated their leaders.
Meanwhile, Elder Reader Laris of Neverwinter learned of a casket of valuable artifacts that belonged to Olandus Cragmire and that they were still hidden deep inside the Cragmire barrow. Believing they would now aid in the citys defense, he hired an adventurer to delve into the barrow and battle through the undead to retrieve the artifacts. Olandus himself confronted the adventurer impressed by their power, he let them have the artifacts if they knew of the Cragmires, and attacked them if not. 
* Olandus Cragmire, a renowned wizard that underwent the process to achieve lichdom.