The Cult of Maegara was a group of fire-worshiping beings that lived within Mount Hotenow that came to deify the slumbering fire primordial Maegera during the latter half of the 15 century DR.
The cult was led by the mad fire giant Gommoth, a charismatic fanatic and believed himself to be king of the volcanic mountain. The groups fighting force comprised fire salamanders, elementals, magma beasts, and fire archons, led by several fire giant generals, namely Kromar, Grumthrox, and Pyraphenia, along with General Ignazar, a powerful archon that had led Maegeras forces in battle during the Dawn War.
The cult had spread amongst the many creatures that held an affinity for fire within the depths of Mount Hotenow. They had claimed the dwarven stronghold of Fireguard Fortress and granted its command to General Ignazar.
The formation of the cult began some time after the eruption of Mount Hotenow in the , when Maegera awoke after centuries-long slumber. This event sparked euphoric feelings within the volcanos fire-attuned inhabitants, a collective experience that was seen by Gommoth and his future followers as a sort of spiritual awakening.
Although the sensation they shared were fleeting, these fire-worshiping beings came together under Gommoths leadership. The formerly-shunned fire giant united the flame creatures under the shared directive that they would delve into the furthers depths of Mount Hotenow, and fully understand the source of their shared religious experience. Once they discovered the again-sleeping dawn titan, they knew their task to reawaken Maegera and release the fires of Toril in a second great eruption of Mount Hotenow.
Maegeras followers came into conflict with the dwarves of the Hillborn expedition circa the . While the dwarves learned of the cults plans, they were cut off from their fellow clansmen by Grumthrox on the far side of Firecross Bridge. Eventually, the Vandra Hillborn enlisted the aid of the Hero of the Sleeping Dragon Bridge and their allies, and the allied group were able to halt the schemes of Gommoth and the other cultists of Maegera. The leaders of the cult were all slain, and Maegera remained undisturbed for the time being.
* Gommoth, the mad fire giant "king" of Mount Hotenow.
* Qalthus, a shadar-kai that was exiled from Xinlenal.