Zhengyi
The Cult of the Goats Head, also known as the Order of the Goats Head, was a religious order dedicated to the worship of Orcus, the demon prince of undeath, during the mid-to-late 14 century DR.
Members of the Cult wore goat-head headdresses in honor of their goat-headed deity, Orcus. Their symbol was a horned goats head.
Prior to his destruction, Zhengyi the Witch-King was leader of the Cult,
The Cult was deeply entrenched in the cultures of evil humanoids and goblinoids of Vaasa.
In their heyday, clerics of the Goats Head could summon legions of undead,
Prior to its destruction, Castle Perilous was the headquarters of Zhengyi and the Cult. Afterward, the Cult hid in the Black Holes of Sunderland.
The Cult of the Goats Head was surrounded by enemies. They fought and tried to undermine the peoples of Vaasa and Damara, and were opposed by King Gareth Dragonsbane.
The Cult had long been active across Vaasa, but came to prominence in the , with the rise of Zhengyi the Witch-King, the Cults leader in the mid&ndash14 century DR. In one notable battle, a single priest of the Goats Head&mdashrumored to have been High Priest Banak himself&mdashdefeated a Nar raiding party by single handedly raising enough undead to decimate the riders.
After the end of this Vaasan War in the , the Cult was involved with the bandit army of the Citadel of Assassins,
In the , the Bloodstone Wars erupted, pitting Gareth Dragonsbane and Damara against Zhengyi and the Cult. This conflict ended when Gareth and his adventuring companions defeated Zhengyi at Castle Perilous, and then launching an attack against Orcus himself. and with the aid of Bahamut, the artifact was destroyed. Bahamut then gifted the party with the Tree-Gem, a relic that acted as the seed for a mighty white tree in Bloodstone Pass that banished the power of Orcus and other forces of the Abyss from the Bloodstone Lands. With this in place, the clerics of the Goats Head were left unable to commune with their demon lord. Their mighty artifacts crumbled to dust and they lost most their potent magical power, retaining only very limited and low-powered spells. Diminished, they fled to the Black Holes of Sunderland to hide and regroup.
thumb|right|300px|A duel with a member of the Cult of the Goats Head.Despite their weakened position, the Cult of the Goats Head continued to serve as priests among the evil inhabitants of Vaasa. This meant that they remained a threat that Gareth Dragonsbane hoped to eliminate. However, unbeknownst to either Gareth or the Cult, the power of the Cult during Zhengyis reign had caught the attention of Kiaransalee, who sent her drow faithful from Velddrinnsshar in the Underdark deep below Vaasa to attack the cultists and their followers within the Black Holes. Over the course of a decade, the drow did significantly greater damage to the cult than the surface-dwelling forces and bounty hunters of Gareth Dragonsbane. By the , the cult had been almost completely exterminated.