The cult of Voldini was a group of elven fanatics dedicated to returning the lost kingdom of Yuireshanyaar to prominence in the realm of Aglarond, and restoring to existence the ancient gods of the Yuir pantheon. It was believed to have been led by Voldini, an eladrin witch who dwelled within a solitary tower on an isle within the realm.
The cult was not particularly large, but held some influence over disillusioned fey and elves that dwelled within the Yuirwood and beyond.
Much of the cults plots involved the Tome of Twilight Boughs, an enigmatic and millennium-old Yuir text. The book contained magically encrypted text, including the specifications for the ancient Ritual of the Doomed. It appeared that, when the ritual was performed within areas afflicted by the Spellplague, disastrous effects would ensue.
In fact, Vol Saffras was dedicated to fully understanding―and eventually controlling―the patches of plaguelands that appeared throughout Aglarond. She spent decades infiltrating and forming bonds with the outcast fey in the realm and learned secrets of the ancient Yuir. Vol Saffras conducted horrific experiments on the "loyal cultists" who had been exposed by effects of the Spellplague.
Some time circa the , a group of cultists led by Berrain Truescourge managed to use a copy of the Tome of Twilight Boughs to briefly return the Temple of the Yuir Gods back to the Yuirwood in Faerûn. While the ritual the cultists used let loose corrupting energies on nearby fey creatures in the forest, a group of adventurers managed to successfully restore the temple to its place in the Feywild. Unfortunately for the cultists, that copy of the tome was lost to them.
The cultists then sought a second copy of the Tome of Twilight Boughs from the half-elven scholar Aldaron the Loremaster, in the city of Veltalar. It was believed that Aldaron managed to translate one of the more esoteric rituals within the tomes text. The cultists assaulted Aldaron at his estate, and were once again successful in retrieving what they sought. They traveled through Sildëyuir in the Feywild and initiated the Ritual of the Doomed in a patch of plaguelands within the Yuirwood. Unbeknownst to the cultists, their ritual had gone awry and, while in the throes of their ceremonies, they transformed themselves into monstrous abominations.
The cultists numerous attempts to harness the powers of the Tome of Twilight Boughs attracted the attention of Aglaronds Simbarch Council and Commander Dezar of the Simbarch Guard.
After "Voldini" was defeated, her cult was disbanded. The true Vol Zaffras survived however, and was allowed to continue her arcane research throughout Aglarond.