The Cult of Frost was a criminal organization that was focused on acquiring the legendary artifact, the Ring of Winter.
The actual numbers of the cult remained a mystery. The organization itself, however, had presences in criminal underbellies of Tantras, among others. The cult attracted a variety of followers, including the wizards and scholars of the House of Oghma. The leaders of the cult knew a ritual of summoning ice golems, a dangerous force of death and subterfuge.  These minions were used for spying and assassination. The golems were usually wrapped in black ninja-like clothing and used their own bodies as weapons. Laser-focused on their target, they felt no pain and had no self-preservation instinct. The main danger to the ice minions existence was the heat. But even in the sweltering jungles of Chult, they posed a grave danger.
The Cult of Frost mainly operated independently from others. However it grew from the worship of Auril and was affiliated with the Church of Auril.
It was unknown when the Cult of Frost was formed or even when Kaverin Ebonhand, the Butcher of Tantras, joined its ranks. In 1357 DR
The cult became an even greater force of chaos following Kaverin Ebonhands death at the hands of Artus Cimber and Hydel Pontifax in 1360 DR. Ebonhands ambition led him to strike a devils bargain with Cyric. In exchange for returning to Toril, Kaverin was to sow chaos and strife in the name of the Mad God. However, the agreement had claws.  This meant that once Kaverin was to die, he was to be tortured by Cyric and his minions for eternity. With increased violence and chaos in the cults wake, the Butcher of Tantras had even greater drive to find the Ring of Winter for its powers of immortality.
Under Kaverins leadership, the Cult of Frost trailed Artus Cimber for years before 1362 DR. Nemesis of Kaverin, Artus was on the same quest to find the legendary ring of Auril. Subsequently, the ring became rumored to be in Chult. An unfortunate explorer from the Society of Stalwart Adventurers, Theron Silvermace, discovered the rings location. Artus embarked on the journey to Chult, and the Cult of Winter sent their icy assassins to  murder Silvermace.
After arriving in Chult, the cult sent another group of frost minions to assassinate Artus and Hydel Pontifax, searching for the ring. The ice golems killed Pontifax, and with Artus grieving, Ebonhand had a head start in the search. Subsequently, Ebonhand allied himself with the Queen Mbobo of cannibalistic Batiri goblins. Together, the cult, Batiri, and a tribe of pterafolk laid a siege on the list city of Mezro, the hiding place of the Ring of Winter. dragged Ebonhand to his eternal torture.
The cults activities after the siege of Mezro remained unknown.
*Feg a flying monkey spy in service of Kaverin Ebonhand.
*Kaverin Ebonhand the Butcher of Tantras and the leader of the cult who orchestrated the siege of Mezro in the mid-14th century DR.
*Phyrra al-Quim a wizard, scholar, and an archeologist, the expert on Mulhorandi magic who joined the Cult of Frost as the result of a long bitter rivalry with the fellow graduate of the House of Oghma, Artus Cimber, in the mid-14th century DR.