None
The Cult of the Dragon, also called the Dragon Cult and the Followers of the Scaly Way They were considered to be a secret society and as a mercantile and criminal enterprise.
According to the prophecy of Sammaster and his translation of Maglass Chronicle of Years to Come, dragons would, and indeed should, rule over Faerûn and all of Toril, reclaiming all the lands theyd once dominated. Moreover, only in undeath were dragons truly immortal and worthy of this rule. The Cult of the Dragons purpose was thus to help bring about the coming reign of the undead dragons. In practice, this meant the destruction of civilization in the Realms and helping live dragons enter into a state of undeath. They directed all their efforts toward these ends.
While in theory they revered all dragons, they had a preference for the evil dragons and particularly the deceased evil dragons known as dracoliches.
While some dragons were worshiped as deities by their devout Cult servants, which the dragons certainly enjoyed these dragons received no divine powers and could grant no spells to their followers. Nevertheless, dracoliches were considered as almost divine and were titled Sacred Ones within the faith.
Otherwise, the Cult of the Dragon had no official patron deity. The few clerics in the Cult venerated Bane, Shar, Talona, Talos, and Velsharoon, and to a lesser extent Cyric, Gargauth, Malar, and Tiamat. The necromancer mages mostly took Velsharoon as their patron, to avoid paying even lip service to Mystra, because of her churchs opposition to the Cult of the Dragon.
In the 1480s DR, new Cult leader Severin Silrajin made a new translation of the prophecy and argued instead that true draconic knowledge and power was actually the domain of living dragons, not undead dragons. He was inspired by Tiamat and he led the Cult to serve her purposes, namely finding and assembling the parts of the Mask of the Dragon Queen, gather treasure and sacrificial victims, and finally summon Tiamat into the world to obliterate civilization and bring about the time of dragon rule. Severin appointed priests of Tiamat as Cult leaders. Now just another dragon cult, they worshiped Tiamat above all, and venerated dragons as mere symbols and masters.
However, his new path was not universally accepted—older members still desired a return to "the true path" of Sammaster and the raising of dracoliches. Severins own inner circle was split over how to deal with the church of Tiamat.
In general, the Cult of the Dragon comprised mages, merchants, and warriors motivated by evil natures and their own self-interest. Many came for the money and power that might follow, while others were simply short on morals or just enjoyed the idea of dark rituals. But when they actually sighted a dracolich for the first time, or worse, witnessed a dragon being so transformed, almost all were awed into fanatical faith. Though they might be seen as criminals and madmen, they saw themselves as heroic and dedicated souls who braved great dangers to serve their faith and destiny. In fact, they were not actually mentally ill, as a rule, but rather had delusions and character flaws that convinced them the Cult of the Dragon was a shortcut to achieving what they desired.
In the late 14 century, almost all members were human, with assorted dragonkin, half-dragons, and other draconic creatures. By the 15 century, dragonborn were also common members. Their martial ideals seemed a good fit for the Cults doctrine. The Cult also included sentient undead members (such as liches and death knights) and commanded many undead minions (such as skeletons) or allies.
As of 1372 DR, the Cult of the Dragon counted almost 1,000 members across Faerûn who were active, willing, and cognizant participants. However, there were numerous others who served the organization unwittingly, making a grand total of 5,730 in 1374 DR. A tally that year revealed 4,527 humans, 516 dragonkin, 286 draconic creatures, 178 half-dragons, and 115 other creatures, together with 57 dragons and 51 dracoliches engaged with the Cult.
Despite their high standing, dragons and dracoliches were not actually members of the Cult, but rather allies and masters to whom the Cult were willing servants. Living dragons who accepted them were intrigued by their philosophy and promises of incredible power and eternal life in undeath.
The Cult of the Dragon was constantly in need of more members for its works. For recruitment circa 1479 DR, they started at home, targeting the family and friends of existing members, while they also looked out for suitable persons to push their toward their strange beliefs. While they were open to anyone who seemed proficient, they had a predilection for people with financial skills or backgrounds and especially people with the magical talent needed to conduct their rituals for creating dracoliches. Such folk were eyed as future leaders and these mages were bribed by being granted access to Sammasters famous works. By the 1480s DR, they were actively recruiting and taking initiates when they were young and seeking out new members in the big cities.
In the late 14 century DR, it cost 300 gp to join and dues were 100 gp per month. Moreover, members were required to donate 10% of their wealth to the Cult.
Members were forbidden from sharing the Cults secrets with outsiders. They were required to obey Cult leaders, respect dragons highly, and revere dracoliches above all. In exchange, most received no more than protection and the sense of comradeship that came from being in a secret world-destroying cult.
thumb|right|250px|Two Wearers of Purple resolving a point of doctrine in 1373 DR.
The Cult of the Dragon was divided into a number of independent cells,
Following the events surrounding the Rage of Dragons in 1373 DR, several cells collapsed. Only around three dozen cells of note were active as of 1374 DR.
In the late 1400s DR, members typically held positions within a cell according to their role and the purpose of that particular cell. Few cells actually served a dracolich directly.
In the 1480s DR under Severin Silrajin, rather than forming autonomous cells, members were assigned to operation groups according to their mission. These ranged from a handful of low-ranked cultists left to act on their own to hundreds of members of different ranks and commanded by several Wearers of Purple.
thumb|left|Neronvain, Wearer of Purple and Green Wyrmspeaker.
thumb|left|A Dragonclaw.
thumb|left|A regular cultist.
Despite differences, each cell had the same general hierarchy. The structure of a Cult of the Dragon cell comprised two distinct tiers of members the higher-echelon Keepers of the Secret Hoard and the more common Followers of the Scaly Way. Each cell was led by one or more members of the Wearers of Purple. By the 15 century DR, members of the Cult seldom used their titles with one another, and some cells did not grant them at all. Only Wearer of Purple was in use for the leaders of cells.
The highest ranked were the Wearers of Purple, named for their purple (or violet) ceremonial robes. Their word was law. A Wearer of Purple led their cell, controlled its treasury and directed the acquisition of wealth by whatever means, oversaw recruitment, manufactured magic items, commanded the members of their cell in conflicts with Cult foes, and also kept the secret of dracolich creation. Large cells had multiple Wearers of Purple, small ones just one. They were no ranks within the Wearers of Purple. Originally, only the leaders of Sembian cells titled themselves Wearers of Purple, but by the early 1370s DR it had been adopted for the entire Cult.
The Keepers of the Secret Hoard were senior members
The Followers of the Scaly Way, also called Dragon Cultists, were recent recruits who still primarily sought their own power and prosperity. They were engaged in the organizations criminal and mercantile enterprises.
At the very bottom of the hierarchy were those outside agents who unwittingly served the Cults goals, Of course, they had no loyalty to the Cult whatsoever.
In the 1480s DR, under Silrajin, the organization and structure of the Cult of the Dragon had changed somewhat. At this time, ranks within the Cult included, in descending order Wyrmspeaker, the cults highest echelon that held one office for every primary color of chromatic dragon Wearer of Purple Dragonsoul Dragonfang Dragonwing Dragonclaw and Initiate, entrants into the cult who would train for months or years to attain higher rank. After passing tests (and some did not survive), Initiates were required to choose a color of chromatic dragon with whom they felt affinity. Ranks were bestowed by Wearers of Purple based on merit and zealotry. The Wyrmspeakers, themselves Wearer of Purple, appointed other Wearers of Purple to lead cells and enclaves. Those Wearers of Purple who did not achieve or advance a relationship with a dragon could be demoted.
Following Sammasters destruction in 1374 DR, the Cult of the Dragon fell under the rule of a triumvirate comprising two dracoliches, Aurgloroasa, the Sibilant Shade, and Daurgothoth, the Creeping Doom, as well as Alagshon Nathaire, a priest of Bane, though his identity and nature as anything more than a humanoid lich was a secret known only to the other two. They adopted unique titles Aurgloroasa was the First Whisperer, Daurgothoth the First Reader, and Alagshon the First Interpreter. Naturally, the three had tensions and trust issues, with each suspecting the other of withholding secrets or trying to subvert the organization to their own ends.
Circa 1479 DR, the Cult of the Dragon had no actual leader. Nevertheless, the runescribed dracolich Anabraxis, the Black Talon, was revered and respected as the organizations highest authority.
In the 1480s DR, the reformer Severin Silrajin had risen to leadership of the Cult. In the Inner Circle of Wyrmspeakers, there were five wyrmspeakers Severin himself for the red dragons, Galvan for the blues, Neronvain for the greens, Rezmir for the blacks, and Varramzord for the whites.
thumb|right|250px|An armored Wearer of Purple riding a wyvern into battle.
Fighters, rogues, and barbarians made up the bulk of the lower-ranked Followers of the Scaly Way, whereas wizards, sorcerers, and some clerics filled the upper-ranked Keepers of the Secret Hoard. Lesser members occasionally trained as dragonkith.
thumb|left|250px|Rezmir, a Wearer of Purple, presenting treasure to the white dragon Glazhael the Cloudchaser.
Seeking out and serving the evil dragons of Faerûn who were ostensibly their "masters", the Cult of the Dragons main activities were gathering intelligence for them, contributing treasure to their hoards, and generally making alliances with them and aiding them in any way possible, all in an effort to gain the cooperation of these dragons and entice them into being transformed into dracoliches. They were also to make preparations for their transformations and guarded dragon lairs, sometimes containing dragon eggs or hatchlings, while these dragons went to hunt or raid. They provided healing and shared spells, and even watched over eggs and hatchlings.
In exchange, members of the Cult of the Dragon would seek permission to use the dragons lairs for shelter when needed, and asked for help from the dragons if they were ever called upon using the rings of dragons. Their alliances with these dragons helped the Cult take power and riches for themselves.
Members would also purchase any captured dragons they learned of in order to liberate them, but not before recruiting them to their cause and encouraging them to get revenge against their captors and spread destruction in the region.
thumb|right|250px|A blue dragon dracolich produced by the Cult of the Dragon.
The mages crafted magic items for the Cult 
The Cult also necessarily engaged in magical research.
For defense, the Cult worked hard to fortify its own holdings and to expand and secure the lairs of its dragons, such as by installing traps.
However, to fund all these efforts, they needed money, and lots of it. Thus, some Cult cells conducted all manner of criminal activities, including blackmail, extortion, kidnapping, and protection rackets smuggling contraband and trading illicit and hazardous goods such as drugs dealing in various vices such as prostitution and gambling loansharking and even espionage and banditry. Their information-gathering efforts extended to tracking caravans carrying various riches so that they might raid them. They also engaged in the theft of valuables, especially rare and unique pieces that could be gifted to their dragon masters. Agents were also known to trick, waylay, and rob adventuring companies.
The cult was not against legitimate commercial activities, however. Some Cult cells carried on aboveboard trade, sold information, and sponsored or hired adventurers to explore ancient ruins (Myth Drannor was a favorite target) so they could take a cut of the profits. In the late 1400s DR, it had several merchant members who used their legally earned money to fund cult projects and a majority of members were engaged in legal trade and research, rather than crime.
Naturally, their practices made the Cult of the Dragon many enemies too, and their enemies were anyone not in favor of rule by dragons. They responded by conducting attacks and raids on them.
The symbol of the Cult of the Dragon was a black flame with eyes above a dragons claw. However, there were many variations, with each cell having its own. The symbol was not displayed openly, appearing only in the few places where the Cult could assemble overtly, where it would not attract attention from their foes. What banners they had were saved for the day when the dragons took over the world.
Cult members of the 1480s DR made a number of signals and countersignals to praise Tiamats glory when among each other and to recognize one another in public. The ‘Tiamat salute’ involved extended their right hands with fingers outstretched in imitation of the five heads of the Dragon Queen, while some kept two fingers curled to signify her hidden strength. While this wasn’t compulsory, a sincere display impressed adepts and zealous members alike. They exchanged phrases "All hail Tiamat!" and "They shall rise!" A more subtle version was employed in public.
thumb|350px|right|A Cult of the Dragon necromancer using dragons teeth to raise skeletons against adventurers.
A Cult strike-force, such as found in Sembia circa 1358 DR, comprised a group of fighters (up to five) and thieves (up to eight), commanded by a wizard.
A Dragon Cult agent like Asbras Hlumin would pretend to aid adventuring parties, by offering training and spellcasting services and even joining them for short periods. They would learn all they could about them and then send them into a dangerous location to be slain and later rob their treasures for themselves and the Cult.
Although it was active all over Faerûn, particularly the Heartlands, the Cult of the Dragon was strongest in the North and the Cold Lands, where dragons were most common and most feared. In the mid–14 century DR, they were believed to have their base in the lands north of Thar, as this was the origin of the devastating Flight of Dragons in 1356 DR. In fact, they had no primary base or headquarters as of around 1370 DR.
But later, circa 1372 DR, fresh rumors spoke of a secret fortress or headquarters somewhere near the Battle of Bones in the Western Heartlands—and they spoke true, alluding to the citadel under construction over the Well of Dragons. This was to be their new headquarters.
In the mid-to-late 1300s DR, Cult agents tended to use the Dragon Coast, particularly Elversult as a launching point for their schemes in more southerly parts of Faerûn.
In the Sunset Mountains, the Cult discovered the Well of Dragons, the legendary site in an extinct volcano that served as a graveyard to dragons in Faerûn for ages and made a pact with the Dire Dragon who guarded the place, breaking the binding keeping it in a state of undeath. Around 1372, the Cult built a citadel nearby to control the site and its treasure. A Cult cell was later housed in the citadel. Their influence stretched from the Serpent Hills in the south to the southern border of the Anauroch, and even off the coast to the island of Evereska.
In the late 14 century, the Dragonwell cell was led by Naergoth Bladelord, a former member of the Sembian cell. In fact the group in the Sunset Mountains maintained close relations with their sister cell, and was full of its expatriated members. They had one allied dragon, Arsekaslyx, who served as their guardian for over a century.
The Well of Dragons and its citadel remained in Cult hands for at least the next century, with the cell still led by Naergoth Bladelord, now a death knight, and Vargo Kent, a lich. As of the late 15 century DR, some old dragons continued to make pilgrimages to the site to achieve immortality through dracolichdom.
On the Dragon Coast in the mid-to-late 14 century DR, the Cult of the Dragon dominated an illicit trade in drugs, poisons, and spices in Elversult. Heading by priestess of Shar Indrith Shalla, the cell included thieves, pirates, priests of Malar, and doppelgangers, and was opposed by the Harpers, as well as by Zhentarim, Thayan agents, and rival pirates who wanted to seize their trade. Agents were naturally also present in the nearby ports of Ilipur and Pros. They remained active as of 1374 DR.
In the Dalelands, in Battledale, the Cult maintained a secret stronghold in the cellars of Aencars Manor, and it had a link to the Underdark.
The Cult of the Dragon had a following in the Shou enclave of Xiousing in Marsember, Cormyr, in the late 15 century DR. The Shou traditionally venerated dragons and the cult found they could operate more openly among the Shou than among other cultures.
As of 1479 DR, curious Cult of the Dragon members sought out the red dragon Balagos, the Flying Flame, at Smokespire in the Troll Mountains of Amn.
One of the longest-operating cells of the Cult (formed 1005 DR), this group acted as pioneers in the field of magical research related to dragons and undeath. They achieved great success in persuading the dragon Alasklerbanbastos to undergo the transformation to dracolichdom, and the Great Bone Wyrm since became the cells leader. In fact, the cell relocated their base of operations from Chessenta to his lair in Mount Thulbane.
This cell had a dogmatic reputation within the Cult of the Dragon as a whole, owing to their devotion to Bane, strong ties to his church, and emphasis on the teachings of Algashon Nathaire over those of Sammaster. The cell, however, remained united in its hatred of Tchazzar and his followers over the years and saw his return to ascension as an open threat to Alasklerbanbastos. During the late 14 century DR, the Great Bone Wyrm hinted at an alliance forming between their cell and the Church of Tiamat, which, along with failed attempts at installing draconic leaders in Chessenta and Threskel, had its members grow weary and marginalized from other Cult branches.
In the late 15 century DR, the Cult could operate openly in the dragon-dominated realm of Murghôm, though they reserved the more extreme elements of their doctrine for the most dyed-in-the-wool members and only after years of practice and monetary investment. The Cult owned a building in the city of Skalnaedyr known as the Dragon House and maintained a fortress on the edge of the Plains of Purple Dust known as the Tower of the Talon, where the true believers were based. This cell were in contact with a couple of Murghôms dragon-princes.
thumb|left|250px|Cult of the Dragon graffiti in Neverwinter.
In 1479 DR, a cell of the cult, led by Adimond Kroskas, worked in conjunction with Thayan agents of Valindra Shadowmantle in Neverwinter Wood whilst searching for a way to restore the dragon Lorragauth to unlife. At the time, someone regularly graffitied a wall of a dilapidated building in the southern Blacklake District of Neverwinter with Iokharic writing (the language unrecognized) and the Cult of the Dragon symbol. Locals believed the images were evil, but mistook it for a devil-worshiping cult.
In Sembia, as of 1358 DR, the Cult of the Dragon was in control of the city of Daerlun via their manipulation of the unwitting Allathast, the commander of the guard. Preferring to keep their activities here low-key, the organization used Daerlun as a refuge, where members could rest and recover and they could store arms and treasures, and to profits off its secret slavery of convicted criminals. Their agents were all around the area. The Cult was also rampant in Saerloon, under the leadership of Naergoth Bladelord, the priest Salvarad, and the thief Zilvreen. They dispatched members members and strike forces to steal treasure and magic to add to dracolich hoards. In Urmlaspyr, the Cult maintained a secret temple under High Dragonservant Faerlaur Onthim,
By the 1370s DR, the senior leaders of the Sembian cell were the Wearers of Purple Salvarad, Zannaster, Zilvreen, and Faerlaur Onthim along with seven or so well-to-do merchants and a senior member of the Silver Ravens. The cell was strongly allied with the dracoliches Aurgloroasa and Dretchroyaster, and maintained a loose associated with a few others. The Sembians maintained a strong influence over the Dragonwell cell.
The Sembian cell was in a constant resource war with the Zhentarim and repeatedly came into conflict with the church of Tiamat during their efforts to convert the dragons of the Thunder Peaks to undeath. They even became a check on the growing threat of the Shadovar.
Circa 1479 DR, a secret cell of the cult operated in Djerad Thymar, the capital of Tymanther. The cult kept secret its membership and true beliefs, but maintained a public face in the form of the Abeir Academy, or Wyrm Academy. It welcomed dragonborn who had fallen on hard times and were looking for a new start, as a way to cultivate potential new members.
The Cult had a presence in Waterdeep circa 1367 DR.
Located in the Galena Mountains, the Cult cell that operated from Wyrmsmoke Keep extended their influence over the dragons of Thar and the eastern Moonsea. They often sought out dragons to disrupt the trade lines of the Zhentarim, though they could not sustain open opposition. The Wyrmsmoke cell had lost all their dracoliches and many of their draconic allies by 1373 DR, largely at the hands of the Talons of Justice. This cell was led by a council of six Wearers of Purple, mostly from the Moonsea region Kaela Ulsant, Crenshyl Khodoil, Delphaeryn Leiyraghon, Orinskar of Thar, Theldar Hammerfist, and Dalgar. Their garrison of forces included three tribes of dragonkin, a tribe of draconic orcs, and their fire drake mounts.
Circa 1479 DR, rumors claimed the Cult of the Dragon had gained a foothold somewhere in the region. Indeed they had, with the Redhorn stronghold in the Dragonspire Mountains.
In the late 14 century DR, more cells were active in Yartar in the Savage Frontier, the Dragonjaw Mountains in Thesk, in Hlondeth in the Vilhon Reach, in the Rockshaws region of the northern High Moor, and even in the ruins of Peleveria, which were built into the cliffs of the Landrise in the Shaar.
Other cells in the Bloodstone Lands, in Leilon on the Sword Coast North, in Westgate on the Dragon Coast, and on Tan in the Pirate Isles collapsed after the Rage of Dragons in 1373 DR.
Notable Cult of the Dragon cells included
* The Glarondan cell, based in Glarondar, Aglarond, in the late 1300s DR.
A resurrected Sammaster had even begun to reform the Penultima cult on the world of Adenthia with Cult of the Dragon rites and practices for creating dracoliches, after they venerated him as their returned Child of Chaos.
The enemies of the Cult of the Dragon were, in their view, anyone who would not want to be ruled over by dragons. Certainly, their doctrine and practices made them at the least frowned upon in most civilized places.
Manshoon of Zhentil Keep manipulated the Cult of the Dragon in the mid-1300s DR to enhance his own influence in the city and cultivate his magical power.
The Cult of the Dragon was primarily opposed by the Harpers, and the Cult saw them as their primary enemy as well. Other enemies included the church of Mystra, church of Lathander, church of Torm, and church of Tyr, and they and the Harpers were known to known to attack the Cult on sight.
The adventuring mage Maxer Hlarr was a noted opponent of the Cult of the Dragon in the early-to-mid 1300s DR, said to have set their schemes back by 20 years before his retirement. The Flight of Dragons in 1356 DR was in part an attempt to get revenge against him.
Despite its secrecy and shadowy deeds, the Cult of the Dragon was infamous across Faerûn, though not well understood by the majority. Yet when they tried to recruit new members in big cities, information inevitably leaked. On the Sword Coast in the late 1400s DR, many had heard of the Cult, but thought it just worshiped evil dragons, and knew little more.
Given their typical trades, regular Cult members were often skilled in intimidation and deception, and also in sensing deception. The spellcasters tended to be knowledgeable in arcane lore and spellcraft. Members would learn to speak the Draconic language and the elder draconic language Aragrakh.
Wizards in the Cult of the Dragon could learn additional necromancy spells to scribe in their spellbooks and could attract more powerful draconic creatures to serve as their familiars or more easily persuade one to serve as a cohort.
thumb|300px|A cult ritual.
The Cult of the Dragon was reputed to have developed strange magical practices for gaining mastery over evil dragons.
The most significant of these practices was the method of transforming a live dragon into an undead dracolich, though it was rumored the Cult was not alone in possessing the knowledge. It was a complex process of powerful magic and expensive material components and a phylactery. This process was discovered by Sammaster himself and written down in his book, the Tome of the Dragon. This was called the ritual of ascension and it could be modified to make a fettered dracolich slaved to the Cult.
Main Cult of the Dragon spells
Wizards usually specialized in the school of necromancy.
They employed a number of unique and specialized spells that were inscribed within the Tome of the Dragon. As copies of Sammasters opus were disseminated to leaders of the Cults cells, they were often used by their arcane members while in service to the Sacred Ones. Many of the more uncommon and rare spells associated with the Cult were based in the metamagic and necromancy schools of magic. These subjects were part of Sammasters obsession after his fall as one of Mystras Chosen.
In the 1480s DR, under Severin Silrajin, the official regalia for most members comprised black clothing and jewelry with a distinctive dragon theme, particularly that of their preferred breed. This included a cape or cloak cut to appear like wings and often a mask. Only they wore purple, and they wore it with pride. Although cult members donned certain regalia for their rituals and within their bases, they dressed normally in public. However, they might wear a band with all five colors of Tiamat or else just the blue, green, and red.
The claw bracer was favored by Cult mages. It provided them with a claw-like weapon that couldnt be disarmed and it left their hands free for spellcasting.
*Evil dragon armor
thumb|right|250px|The Tome of the Dragon, founding work of the Cult.
*Amulet of draconic might 
*Dragons tooth
*Dragon masks
* Ring of dragons These were used by senior members, the Keepers of the Secret Hoard, for their protection, namely by summoning (but not controlling) nearby evil dragons.
*Mask of the Dragon Queen
*Tome of the Dragon
The Cult of the Dragon was founded by the former Chosen of Mystra, Sammaster. Unlike his fellow Chosen, however, his mind broke under the great power granted him by Mystra. Mad and beset by delusions of grandeur, Sammaster began to believe that "dead dragons shall rule the world entirely" and furthermore that he should be the one to bring about that destiny. He gathered believers in his prophecy and developed the process for creating the first dracolich, which he achieved in the .
Although Sammaster was killed in the , during an ambush by the Harpers and clergy of Lathander, Algashon Nathaire led the organization underground, and Sammaster achieved lichdom, having prepared for the event of his death. Though he would later be destroyed, the Cult of the Dragon survived and continued to menace Faerûn.
Originally, the Cult of the Dragon lacked any formal headquarters or strong leadership, which caused the organization to be disjointed and often in conflict with itself. By around 1370 DR, the Cult had spread widely, and its own tenets had diverged, leading to members in different areas having different ideas of the Cults formation and ultimate destiny.
thumb|250px|Kya Mordrayns scarred cultists in the ruins of Myth Drannor circa 1369 DR.
The returned lich Sammaster completed his work on the Dracorage mythal in the , inciting a Rage of Dragons across Faerûn until a band of heroes stopped it and destroyed the lich once and for all. After Sammasters destruction, the Cult of the Dragon had no true leader. Members, including Keepers and Sacred Ones, fought among themselves for power, both within their cells and over the Cult as a whole. Outside forces also tried to take over, among them the Church of Tiamat and Alasklerbanbastos, the Great Bone Wyrm of Threskel and Unther. Ultimately, a triumvirate composed of Alagshon Nathaire, Aurgloroasa the Sibilant Shade, and Daurgothoth the Creeping Doom emerged and took control of the Cult of the Dragon.
After the Spellplague of 1385 DR and the subsequent century of upheavals and devastation, the arrival of Tymanther and its dragonborn, the appearance of Returned Abeir and its dragon empires, and the rise of dragons ruling over Murghôm were also seen by the Cult as important omens of the destined reign of the dragons. Though it had not actually advanced their own goals, the Cult of the Dragon was emboldened, enough to emerge from the mists of secrecy in many places and serve their dragon masters openly and proudly.
As of , the Cult of the Dragon was effectively commanded by Anabraxis, the Black Talon.
In the 1480s DR, a cultist named Severin Silrajin came to prominence. he decided that the Chronicles of Years to Come had been mistranslated by Sammaster, and predicted that the world would be ruled not by dead dragons, but by living ones. He quickly rose through the cults ranks until he became its leader, at which point he switched the focus the cults efforts to summoning Tiamat into Faerûn at the Well of Dragons by finding and bringing together the five parts of the Mask of the Dragon Queen. The Cult shifted its efforts from eastern Faerûn to the west on the Sword Coast and from dracoliches to Tiamat and live dragons. This plot nearly succeeded, but, following its failure, the Cult fractured between those who wished to return to their old mandate to honor undead dragons and those who wished to pursue the new philosophy.
Following Severins plot, a new cell of the cult loyal to Sammaster was formed in Neverwinter and attempted a plot to use an orb of draconic influence, along with ancient tomes of necromancy salvaged from the ruins of Thultanthar, to magically attract dragons and then turn them into dracoliches against their will. After that plot failed, the cell has allied itself with Valindra Shadowmantle. Together they attempted to turn every dragon on Faerun into a dracolich―to be controlled by them and Thay―by casting the rite of the dracolich through a netherese mythallar. As part of this plan, Severin was raised as an undead creature in order to lead the cult once again, but was promptly destroyed by adventurers from Neverwinter.