The Dawn War pantheon was a pantheon of gods worshiped on the worlds of Nerath, Exandria, and other worlds of the multiverse.
The gods of the Dawn War pantheon were a small group of deities that banded together during the Dawn War. They kept a loose alliance of coexistence (even between gods of Good and Evil) and mutual help against common enemies. The alliance was maintained by the "compact of heaven," in which the gods agreed to share power in the natural world and shared control over angels. The compact included Evil in its terms but not Chaos, making it troublesome for chaotic deities to enforce the power of the compact at times.
The gods of the Dawn War pantheon were "universal" gods, meaning that even if they were "racial" gods they were worshiped by members of all races instead of just the races they created.
As mentioned above, the Dawn War pantheon was an alliance of gods under the terms of the "compact of heaven". Despite rivalries and hatreds between its members, the gods of the Dawn War pantheon were aware that the existence of their alliance (and by extension the survival of their rival deities) was necessary to survive against threats such as the primordials or the Far Realm.
The Dawn War pantheon was created out of necessity, as a small group of gods from different worlds allied together to survive during the Dawn War. When the primordials attacked the worlds of Realmspace, the gods of the Dawn War pantheon were summoned to Abeir-Toril by Selûne and Shar to help the twin goddesses to defend Realmspace.
By the late 15 century DR, some of the Dawn War gods still had some degree of influence on Toril.
The following were the members of the Dawn War pantheon known on the world of Nerath
Asmodeus
 A god of Tyranny and Domination, and lord of the Nine Hells.
Avandra
 A goddess of Change, Luck and Travel, and patron of halflings.
Bahamut
 The dragon god of Justice, Protection and Nobility, and patron of metallic dragons and good dragonborn.
Bane
 A god of War and Conquest, revered by goblinoids. He was however, entirely unrelated to the Bane of the Faerûnian pantheon.
Corellon
 The elven god of Beauty, Art, Magic and the Fey, he was also the seasonal God of the Spring and patron of eladrin.
Erathis
 A goddess of Civilization, Inventions and Law.
Gruumsh
 The orcish god of Slaughter and Destruction, and patron of the orcs. He was something of a wildcard in the "compact of heaven" given his chaotic nature.
Ioun
 A goddess of Knowledge, Skill and Prophecy.
Kord
 A god of Storms, Battle and Strength, he was also a member of the Oerthian pantheon.
Lolth
 The drow goddess of Shadow and Lies, and patron of drow. She had broken her connections to the "compact of heaven" and was barely considered a member of the alliance.
Melora
 A goddess of Wilderness, Nature and the Sea.
Moradin
 The dwarven god of Family, Community and Creation, and patron of dwarves.
Pelor
 A god of the Sun, Agriculture and Time, and seasonal god of Summer. He was also a member of the Oerthian pantheon.
Raven Queen
 A goddess of Death, Fate and Winter.
Sehanine
 The elven goddess of Illusion, Love and the Moon, she was also the seasonal goddess of Autumn and patron of wood elves.
Tharizdun
 The Chained God, also known as the Elder Elemental Eye. He was not considered a member of the alliance, and was more of a prisoner keep under their watch.
Tiamat
 The dragon goddess of Greed and Envy, patron of the chromatic dragons and evil dragonborn.
Torog
 A god of the Underdark.
Vecna
 A god of the Undead and Necromancy, He the newest member of this pantheon, and he was also a member of the Oerthian pantheon.
Zehir
 A god of Darkness and Poison and the favored deity of the yuan-ti.
In the world of Exandria, a minor goddess named Raei was also considered part of this pantheon.