The Drakhon Dynasty was the third of the four dynasties of the Third Age of Calimshan.
The seat of power of the Drakhons was the city of Calimport.
* Adjam el Drakhon, whose grandaughter was rescued by the famous wizard, Ali el Samesaj.
* Kamal el Drakhon, who commissioned the reestablishment of the Nallojal, the navy of Calimshan.
* Ruj el Drakhon, the Syl-Pasha on the throne during the Battle of the Samesaj Gate.
The Drakhons were at first a group of warrior priests and princes, who served some of the deities of the modern Faerûnian pantheon. Before their coming to power, Calimport and all Calimshan were under the control of the beholders of the Alimir Tribe. Calimport itself was ruled by Qyraaptir the Bloodeye. The Drakhons began their war for freedom in  with a siege of Calimport. They set fire to the outer sabbans of the city as a means of smoking out the beholders. The siege was partially successful at its intended purpose, but it also resulted in the death of about five percent of the population and the destruction of about 20% of the structures by fire, in what was later known as the Cajaan Vengeance (after the name of the previous dynasty that had fallen to the beholders 25 years prior.)
By the next year, The victorious priest-princes established a new Calishite dynasty.
By , the Drakhon forces had eliminated all attacks from the beholders against the Caltazar Hills the year after that, all beholder forces in Calimports territories were defeated soundly, and Calimshan was an empire once again.
There was peace from conflict against the beholders for more than a century, and during this time, the Drakhon pashas continued to maintain power. The road from Memnon to Zazesspur, for example, was finished in .
The war of the Calishites against the elves in the frontiers of Tethyr&mdashwhich had been started during the time of the previous Cajaan Dynasty&mdashalso ended during this period, circa . In this same year, a road was begun from Zazesspur to the east, but progress was very slow.
However, the time of peace and development was short, as Qyraaptir the beholder mage returned in force, now leading all of the armies of the beholders, and war erupted in the east again, around the city of Almraiven, beginning in . This new period of war would continue for more than two centuries.
Around the year , Syl-Pasha Kamal ordered the reestablishment of the Imperial Navy. This decision was crucial in leading to the defeat of the beholders 70 years later, as it vastly sped the transportation of Calishite troops to where they were needed in the war. Furthermore, the new navy greatly increased the political and trade power of the empire with other nations.
Around the same period, the dynasty expanded and restructured the Pashas Sabban, the Armada Ward, and other areas of Calimport destroyed by the Villaflames conflagration of .
It is not recorded when the Drakhon Dynasty ended, but its pashas ruled until at least , the same year that the road from Zazesspur to Akkabbel was finally completed and the Battle of the Samesaj Gate won. Nor do scholars know the name of the dynasty that followed, which would bring the Third Age to its close.
Drakhon Sabban in Caravans Ward of Calimport was named for this dynasty.