century symbol of the Emerald Enclave.
The Emerald Enclave was an organization of druids and other nature worshipers based out of the island of Ilighôn off the coast of the Vilhon Reach. They were referred to by many names, including Caretakers, Natures Chosen, the Circle, and the Chosen of Silvanus. Despite the power of the Vilhonese nations, as of the 14 century DR they did nothing involving the land and nature without the approval of the Enclave.
left|A staff-wielding druid of the Emerald Enclave.
The goals of the Enclave were six-fold. Firstly, they swore an oath to protect nature in all its forms, and members of the Emerald Enclave were ready to give up their own lives in service of the cause and to preserve the balance. However, this did not mean that every lumberjack was an enemy of the Enclave instead, the organization demanded that all logging be done responsibly. Loggers had to spend time planting trees to compensate for the trees they felled, and the selection of the logging area was also important to maintain the balance. Historically, this dogma brought the Emerald Enclave to blows with the nations of Chondath and Turmish over their logging operations in the Vilhon Reach, as following the Enclaves demands meant logging would be too expensive and inconvenient.
Secondly, the Emerald Enclave aimed to control human expansion, as nature was a finite collection of resources—its raw materials could be exhausted and wildlife driven to extinction and, as such, not all areas needed to be developed, not all farms needed to plant more food to feed ever-expanding settlements, and not all cities needed to be connected via roads.
The Emerald Enclave believed that everything in nature had its place and recognized that nature encompassed more than just forests. The balance between plains, mountains, rivers, and forests was important, and anyone who sought to reshape nature for their monetary gain was to be opposed. Similarly, the magic needed to be controlled and never be used for mass destruction this creed was adopted following the disaster known as the Rotting Wars. The Emerald Enclave warned against the use of magic on a grand scale as it was nothing but a disastrous accident waiting to happen.
Lastly, despite the Enclaves true feelings and conflicts, they always presented themselves as a united front to the outside world. Any disagreements were always only voiced internally and never outside the Oakenhall of Ilighôn. Actions showing discord and disagreement within the Enclave were disrespectful to the Elder Circle of Three and weakened the organization as a whole.
The Emerald Enclave of the post-Spellplague era believed that the natural order had to be respected and preserved and that forces that would upset that natural order should be destroyed. They were also to keep elemental forces in check and prevent the wilderness and civilization from wiping out one another. They also accepted that the wilderness could be harsh, and some could not survive it without aid, so they helped.
All members of the Enclave were taught a unique language, "druidspeak", that had some similarities to thieves cant. "Druidspeak" was never taught to outsiders. It usually took a year or more to learn.
Members of the Elder Circle received magical divine gifts from the patron gods of the Emerald Enclave. They became hidden from magical sight were under the constant effects of the nondetection spell became unaffected by any charm, indoctrination, and mind control and were immune to all mundane and magical diseases and afflictions such as lycanthropy. Lastly, the Elders received the gift of a dramatically slowed aging process, aging only a year per decade. Similarly, they only needed to sleep one night out of ten. Additionally, they also received a special gift from the deity they worshiped. Eldathyn Elders could breathe underwater and transport themselves to the Elemental Plane of Water at will, Mielikkis faithful could shapechange into treants and heal when transforming back, and Silvanites could meld into stone and travel to the Elemental Plane of Earth at will.
Those members of the Emerald Enclave who sought to master wilderness survival, reportedly traveled to the isle of Wavecrest, neighboring the isle of Ilighôn. The island was known for its untamed jungles full of mysteries and danger. However, the Enclave did not share its knowledge of the island with outsiders.
Those divine spellcasters of the Emerald Enclave who worshiped Silvanus, Mielikki, and Eldath gained access to several unique spells. These spells included faith-magic zone, the same magics that sheltered Ilighôn, which was a gift from Mystra to Silvanus. The spell called re-target allowed the caster to redirect any spell, friendly or not, within its range. And lastly there was the spell of windlance that launched the caster and any creature within its vicinity high into the air.
Initiates were required to serve neither good nor evil, nor to serve any other organization (apart from the churches of Eldath, Mielikki, or Silvanus), to be innocent of crimes against nature, and to have performed at least one significant deed that benefited nature in the Vilhon Reach. The rites of initiation were held each full moon at the Oakenhall, which was the House of Silvanus at the heart of Ilighôn.
The Emerald Enclave had a well-established pattern of action when dealing with those violating nature. Firstly, the Enclave issued a simple warning to those deemed guilty. If the warning was ignored, the Emerald Enclave acted swiftly and decisively, stopping the wrongdoers by any means.
Based out of the isle of Ilighôn, the Emerald Enclaves heart was the House of Silvanus, or Oakenhall, built atop the mountain range at the center of the island. By the late 14 century DR, the Emerald Enclave had expanded its scope beyond the Vilhon Reach to the rest of Faerûn. To protect forests that would surely eventually face danger from encroaching civilization, it formed splinter cells in such woods as High Forest, Cormanthor, the Wealdath, and the Great Dale. Despite the cells humble sizes, they remained vigilant, keeping watch for foes such as the Church of Talos and the People of the Black Blood. Older established cells included those in the Chondalwood and Winterwood.
Members of the Emerald Enclave did not wear uniforms instead, each individual was adorned with an article of clothing or jewelry that was green in color. Most commonly, it was a green pendant or a pair of emerald earrings. Druids of high standing could be discerned by their eyes that turned a bright green color and shimmered with Silvanuss holy symbol.
The Emerald Enclave was at odds with the Red Wizards of Thay for many, many years and with mages of the Zhentarim, as well as other wizards, in fears of the spellcasters abusing the Art and unleashing a disaster similar to the Rotting Wars. The Enclave also opposed the Church of Bane, Church of Talos, and Church of Malar, as well as the Malarite cult known as the People of the Black Blood.
The only settlement on the isle of Ilighôn, Sapra, was granted only limited land by the Emerald Enclave, stopping its growth and overpopulation. The port towns existence fully depended on the Emerald Enclaves goodwill. The cities of the Vilhon Reach operated their logging industries with the Enclaves permission. The city of Hlaths main export was lumber, with its industry carefully monitored. The metropolis of Reths logging was being phased out as of 1372 DR after years of tensions between it and the Emerald Enclave. The Turmishan city of Gildenglade, before its destruction, was on good terms with the Enclave thanks to its elven population who handled negotiations, forestry, and forest preservation. Lizardmen of Surkh, the City of Lizards, maintained cordial relationships with the Emerald Enclave.
The Emerald Enclave served as protectors for creatures dwelling on the Shining Plains. As such, the Enclaves representatives attended the annual memorial on the Hill of Memories, commiserating the tragedy of the Field of Tears of the . Following the memorial, the gathered leaders discussed any issues that had arisen in the last year. The most powerful clan of the Shining Plains, the Ten-paw, counted a representative of the Emerald Enclave as one of its close advisors, who lived with the wemic clan.
right|225px|Doric, a young tiefling of the Enclave in the late 15 century DR.
* Lady Shadowmoon Crystalembers (later Cindermoon), Hierophant of the Emerald Enclave in the 14 century DR.
* Shinthala Deepcrest, Grand Cabal of the Enclave in the 14 century DR.
* Ashenford Torinbow, Elder of the Enclave in the 14 century DR.
* Delaan Winterhound, a chief ranger of the Emerald Enclave and its main delegate at the Council of Waterdeep in the late 15 century DR.
* Haarn Brightoak, a druid tasked with protection of Turmishite land in the late 14 century DR.
* Screaming Wind, a tabaxi hunter active in Chult in the late 15 century DR.
* Tick Tary Tanner, Archmage of the High Forest in the late 15 century DR.