The Emerald Brotherhood was an adventuring company in operation around 1358 DR.
This group was dedicated to fighting mind flayers and neogi whenever possible. They were generally found patrolling the areas between Anadia and Toril, though sometimes they were hired for jobs within other crystal spheres.
The Emerald Brotherhood conducted its operations aboard the vipership Tyrs Strike. Their home port was an isolated planetoid in the Tears of Selûne, where a temple dedicated to the Faerûnian god Tyr was under construction.
The Emerald Brotherhood was a Torilian adventuring party that first formed to protect the forest of Thornwood and its druids from an invading tribe of gnolls. They went on to become famed as vicious lycanthrope-hunters in the lands east and south of Amn and Tethyr.
In 1359 DR, they were exploring the Snowflake Mountains as part of a quest that they had received from a king in the Vilhon Reach. He had tasked them with hunting down and killing three evil dragons that lurked along the Deepwash. However, while on those mountains, they were accosted by mindflayer slavers and taken into Wildspace on their ship the Mind Ripper.
The Emerald Brotherhood eventually managed to defeat their captors, escaping alongside a captive arcane. Afterword, they destroyed a major neogi slavery operation. They then went on to purchase the vipership Tyrs Strike from the same arcane with whom they had escaped.
The Emerald Brotherhood set their sights on destroying both the mind flayers and the neogi. After only fourteen months, neogi and other slavers in Realmspace came to fear them, with the former putting a bounty of 50,000 gold pieces on them. The leader of the Emerald Brotherhood used many of the treasures that they had seized from slavers to fund the construction of the temple to Tyr that they used as their base of operations.
The group partnered with Elestams Crusaders, with whom they fought against both dragons and vampires in the new kingdom of Erlkazar.
The Brotherhood were also friends with the mage Gamalon Idogyr, and they would visit him from time to time at his shop on the Rock of Bral.