House Estelmer (
The Estelmer family arms comprised three daggers with black handles and silver blades, a green gauntlet a brown shelf with black scrollwork, four white skulls, a gold half-shield, a white book, and a turquoise quill pen, on a white field.
Their trades and interests lay in heraldry, sage-lore, and printing.
Family members often prayed to Oghma, the Lord of Knowledge.
The family had a villa in the North Ward, which took up almost an entire city block between Sulmor Street and Hassantyrs Street and between Vhezoar Street and Brondars Way.
The family had resources up to 28,000 gp available.
The Estelmer family supported the New Olamn bardic college and the Font of Knowledge temple to Oghma.
The Estelmers were ennobled in Waterdeep in the Year of the Talking Skull, 1293 DR.
In the Year of the Staff, 1366 DR, the Estelmers were among those families who backed the establishment of the New Olamn bardic college. They continued to support it in the following years.
The Estelmer family also aided in the establishment of a temple to Oghma the city, by generously donating funds for the construction. The Font of Knowledge, as it was called, was due to be completed by Midsummer of the Year of the Banner, 1368 DR. Until then, its planned Great Library was gathered and organized at the Estelmers villa. Thanks to the Estelmers taking the lead, the Font of Knowledge opened on schedule with the greatest library in the city. They continued to provide financial support.
In the chaos that ensued in the Spellplague, the familys fortune came to decline and eventually they lost their standing as a noble house.
The family was human, of primarily Tethyrian ethnicity, and had 27 noble members circa 1372 DR. Notable members were
* Guldos Estelmer, a prominent member by 1357 DR, and the family patriarch by 1368 DR and through 1372 DR.
* Dorma Estelmer, consort of Guldos c. 1368 DR and c. 1372 DR.
* Finn Estelmer, eldest son of Guldos and heir by 1368 DR and c. 1372 DR.
* Fenn Estelmer, a pompous fop and one of Kyrianis lovers around 1358 DR.Fenn Estelmer (appearing in comics) may be the same person as Finn Estelmer (mentioned in sourcebooks). Otherwise, his relation to the rest of the family is unknown.
* Morgan Estelmer,  a wizard in the 15 century DR.