| races          = Gods
| memrefs        = 
| allegiances    = 
| enemies        = 
| relrefs        = 
| showmembers    = 
| orgname        = 
The Faerûnian pantheon was the most worshiped pantheon on Faerûn, a continent on Toril.
The Faerûnian pantheon was a pantheon of deities. Pantheons were a group of deities who were worshiped by people who shared one characteristic, for example sharing the same cultural or racial background. In the Faerûnian pantheons case the believers shared characteristic was a geographic one, people who lived in those parts of the continent Faerûn where other pantheons did not hold sway were the believers.
The Circle of Greater Powers were the twelve deities that led the pantheon. The leadership was a loose matter and was more of administrative nature. Apart from this, there was little hierarchy in the Faerûnian pantheon except for the one the gods created among themselves. A unique trait of the Faerûnian pantheon was that deities with similar portfolios clustered in a hierarchic relationship.
The Faerûnian pantheon was a very fractious one that fought among themselves and had no overarching goal. This fractious nature was believed to be the source of the pantheons adaptability and its ability to expand. When it expanded its physical sphere of influence, it usually did so at the expense of other pantheons.
The aforementioned Circle of Greater Powers regulated the deities according to the rules as set by Ao, the overgod of Toril to whom all pantheons worshiped on Toril were subject to. However, the leaders rarely (if ever) convened to carry out their duties. On the occasions where they did convene they were slow to act, not because of deliberation but because of conflict between each other.
As mentioned above, the Faerûnian pantheon was a single-sphere pantheon. The reason why gods deliberately concentrated their work on one single world at the exclusion of others was that this way they could shut out deities from other worlds entering and infringing on their home turf.
The Faerûnian pantheon had―as it was normal for single-sphere pantheons―no base of operations. The members held their divine realms where it suited them most. The closest to a base of operations was the pavilion of Cynosure, a demiplane where the Circle of the Greater Powers met.
As mentioned above, the Faerûnian pantheon was subject to Ao and tried to execute his rule of Balance.
As mentioned above, single-sphere pantheons were good at defending themselves from infringement from potential external rivals. This came at the cost of interplanar unimportance, Torils deities were, as deities who were worshiped only on a backwater plane like Toril, unimportant deities on the interplanar political landscape. However, the rate at which their importance grew was equal to that of the most vibrant of pantheons. That said, the Faerûnian pantheon ever becoming an important force on the interplanar landscape was considered unlikely at best.
The Faerûnian pantheon as a whole had special relationships with the Chultan pantheon. The pact between the two was quite simple, Ubtao would look out for Dendar while the Faerûnian pantheon would leave Ubtaos turf alone for this service.
The Faerûnian pantheon was created out of the merging of at least four pantheons, the Coramshite pantheon, the Jhaamdathan pantheon, the Netherese pantheon, and the Talfiric pantheon. These pantheons were all geographically divided human pantheons. In ancient times, human pantheons were loosely geographically divided because the humans population density and area was such that they did not border each other. Over time, the human cultures and borders intermingled with each other and their pantheons intermingled too. When this happened, deities of similar portfolios had to fight each other for supremacy to get rid of the other one. Over time, the pantheons merged together and the Faerûnian pantheon was born. For example, Garagos and Tempus, both war gods of the Netherese and Talfiric pantheon respectively, fought each other and the former lost. It was not clear when exactly the various pantheons merged into the Faerûnian pantheon. Various gods entered and dropped out of the pantheon.
For example, Jergal split his portfolio among three mortals, Bane, the new god of strife, Bhaal, the new god of murder, and Myrkul, the new god of death, the last whom Jergal served. Other mortals who arose to godhood were Azuth, who needed to fight over his position with Savras, Gwaeron Windstrom, the Red Knight, Torm, and Uthgar.
As mentioned above, the Farûnian pantheon was a single-sphere pantheon. Gods formed such with the objective of shutting out other worlds deities from  Toril. That said, various deities managed to sneak into the pantheon of Toril and the number of such deities was expected to increase. That world was a favored destination of foreign deities who were losing influence for one or the other reason. Examples included Oghma and Silvanus from the Celtic pantheon, Tyr from the Norse pantheon, and Loviatar and Mielikki from the Finnish pantheon, all entering the Faerûnian pantheon to cling to life and/or some degree of influence. Another example was Tyche from the Greek pantheon who split in two deities Beshaba and Tymora over the course of the Dawn Cataclysm.
thumb|right|300px|The gods being cast down to Toril during the Time of Troubles.
The gods, not only of the Faerûnian pantheon but all of them, were cruel creatures who exploited mortals while not pursuing their duties on levels that horrified Ao, who was losing his patience with them because of it. The last straw was the theft of the Tablets of Fate at the hand of Bane and Myrkul, two deities of the Faerûnian pantheon. The Time of Troubles was started by Ao as a response.
During that time, a deitys avatars death could mean the death of the deity. Among the deities who died were Bane, Bhaal, Myrkul, Mystra, and Torm, the last one was reinstalled, the first threes positions were overtaken by Cyric, and Mystras was overtaken by Midnight. Other deities who arose over the course of the Time of Troubles were Iyachtu Xvim and Finder Wyvernspur by killing an avatar of Moander. Shar killed two deities, Ibrandul and Eshowdow. The latter had potential to become important for the Shadow Giant was a member of the Chultan pantheon and Shar making inroads into that pantheon was an action that did potential harm to the agreement between the Faerûnian pantheon and the Chultan one.
A pantheon that stopped working as one because of the Time of Troubles was the Untheric pantheon. Its surviving members, Hoar and Tiamat, signed up with the Faerûnian one. but the smaller Mulhorandi one feared to be swallowed up by the bigger one.
Another presumed effect of the Avatar Crisis was that the gods of the Faerûnian pantheon started to look out for other sources of faith outside of Toril to become more powerful.
The troublesome time for the Faerûnian pantheon did not end with the Time of Troubles. Cyric tried to increase his power. He killed Leira for that goal and ordered the writing of the Cyrinishad, a book that made the reader believe that Cyric was the greatest person in existence, and completed it. He read it himself and fell into delusional hubris. In the wake of his madness, he lost the portfolio of death to Kelemvor and that of tyranny to Iyachtu Xvim. Cyric later came back to his senses in 1371 DR.
In 1368 DR, Velsharoon became a deity. In 1372 DR, Bane returned by killing his son Xvim.
In 1374 DR, Daelegoth Orndeir cast Amaunators eternal sun and with it heralded the transformation of Lathander to Amaunator. In the same year, Mask handed his power and life over to Shar.
In 1384 DR, Tyr killed Helm over the misunderstanding that the latter wanted an adulterous relationship with his wife Tymora. In 1385 DR, Tyr abdicated and died fighting a demon horde.
In 1385 DR, Cyric murdered Mystra and with it the Spellplague happened. On the divine side, Savras died with Dweomerheart, Deneir built himself and the Metatext into the Weave or what remained of it and ceased to exist.
After the Spellplague, various formerly racial deities made inroads into the Faerûnian pantheon and various racial deities turned out to be Faerûnian deities aspects and vice versa.
Examples of gods who had aspects in the form of racial deities were Aerdrie Faenya, who turned out to be Akadi, or Hanali Celanil, who turned out to be Sune. A reverse example was Talos who turned out to be Gruumsh, the orcish head deity.
Members of racial pantheons who made inroads into the Faerûnian one were Corellon, Ghaunadaur, Gruumsh, Lolth, and Moradin.
Lolth tried to become the deity of magic in 1480 DR. She failed and Mystra returned to power.
In the wake of the Second Sundering, a number of deities made their return. Drasek Riven put on the mantle of Mask. The formerly racial deities left the Faerûnian pantheon for their racial ones.
The following were members of the Faerûnian pantheon after the Second Sundering
Akadi Akadi was the embodiment of the element of air and neutral goddess of elemental air, speed, and flying creatures.
Amaunator
Amaunator was the lawful neutral Netherese solar deity of order, the sun, law, and time. He was prayed to for desirable weather, but was also the object of worship when keeping laws and oath was the matter at hand, for he was viewed as a strict deity to whom the rule of law was very important.
Asmodeus
Asmodeus was the Faerûnian lawful evil deity of indulgence and ruler of all devils. His belief lived from the fact that when mortals did not follow their patron deitys edicts, they had a longer time to wait on the Fugue Plane or might stay there for eternity. People prayed to him to be provided with entertainment during the waiting time or cover their transgressions up so they had a chance to leave the Fugue Plane.
Auril
Auril was the fickle, vain, and evil deity of winter, who was primarily venerated out of fear. Her worship was done in cold regions in the hope of her making winter easier to live through.
Azuth
Azuth was the Faerûnian god of arcane magic whose concerns included the perpetuation of the magical arts as a craft. He was the god of the practice of magic but not of magic itself. Worship of him was done when wizardry was practiced in some way, like scribing scrolls, memorizing spells, and so on. The lesser god was a servant of Mystra and worshiped by all manner of arcane spellcasters, earning particular veneration from wizards.
Bane
Bane was the Faerûnian god of tyrannical oppression, terror, and hate, known across Faerûn as the face of pure evil through malevolent despotism. Bane stood for the notion that "might makes right". Worshipers of his were culpable for violent acts, but the majority of his adherents were so because Bane stood also for order and were viewed as problem-solvers. However, even that often had a dark touch to it.
Beshaba
Beshaba was the chaotic evil intermediate deity of accidents, bad luck, misfortune, and random mischief, and a member of Tempus pantheon. Worship of her was done to appease her and with it spare misfortune for themselves.
Bhaal
Bhaal was the widely feared Faerûnian god of violent and ritualistic murder. Naturally, praying to him was not something average people did. It was something those who killed did, either for a living or for other reasons.
Chauntea
Chauntea was the Faerûnian goddess of life, bounty, and agriculture, who viewed herself as the embodiment of all things agrarian. The Earthmother was seen as the tamer parallel of Silvanus, The Forest Father of druidry and wilderness, as she was the deity of agriculture and plant cultivation. She had two aspects, one agricultural one that was almost exclusively prayed to in rural areas and one as a mother goddess, in whose aspect she collected faith from everybody who felt secure at home.
Cyric
Cyric was the monomaniacal Faerûnian god of strife and deception, and the greater god of conflict and murder, as well as lies, intrigue and illusion. He stood for the notion that no bond was permanent. It was he who murdered Mystra and caused the Spellplague, throwing the cosmos into turmoil in an act that cost him much of his following.
Deneir
Deneir was the neutral good lesser deity of art, cartography, glyphs, images, knowledge, literature and scholars. His adherents believed that unrecorded information would eventually get lost. He was customarily invoked when people wrote or created works of art.
Eldath
Eldath was a lake spirit who acted as the goddess of peace, and the guardian of groves and watersheds. Her presence was felt wherever there was calm. A substantial part of her base consisted of pacifists or those scarred by violence.
Gond
Gond was the Faerûnian god of craft, smithing, and inventiveness. His worshiper-base consisted of craftsmen, including blacksmiths, engineers, and weavers. It was believed that he was at his happiest when people invented something.
Grumbar
Grumbar was the elemental embodiment of earth in the Realms. He was one of the four elemental deities worshiped in Faerûn, also known as Elemental Lords, those primordials that remained on Toril when it was separated from Abeir. Nonetheless, he retained worshipers and had power equivalent to that of a god.
Gwaeron Windstrom
Gwaeron Windstrom was a neutral good god of rangers and tracking. His worshiper-base consisted of rangers in the North. He was prayed to as exemplar among rangers and as the one who would made his worshipers needs heard by Mielikki.
Helm
Helm was the god of watchfulness, guardians, protection, and protectors. He was a god who preached vigilance and preparedness. His worshiper-base consisted of people whose jobs revolved around protecting like bodyguards.
Hoar
Hoar was the vengeful deity of retribution invoked by those who sought to repay an eye for an eye. He was also an exarch of Bane. He was a bitter deity, prone to mood swings and fits of violence. Normally, he was not prayed to at all. However, he was frequently invoked by wronged parties who wanted retribution on the wrongdoer and by people like bounty hunters or those who pursued vengeance against wrongdoers by themselves.
Ilmater
Ilmater was an intermediate deity of the Faerûnian pantheon whose portfolio included endurance, martyrdom, perseverance, and suffering. He was the god of those who suffered, the oppressed, and the persecuted, who offered them relief and support, encouraged them to endure, and who encouraged others to help them, to take their burdens or take their places. His worshipers often worked to diminish suffering in the world. This included both doing charitable work to tend to victims of calamities like plagues or war, but also stopping violence by force.
Istishia
Istishia was the neutral primordial deity of elemental water and purification. In the wake of the Spellplague, he turned out to be a primordial.
Jergal
 Jergal was a god who worked as Kelemvors scribe, the Lord of the Dead, who keeps records on the final disposition of all the spirits of the dead. People who directly prayed to him were rare except by those who had the custom of putting parchment with the deads name on it into his or her mouth.
Kelemvor
Kelemvor was the god and judge of death and the dead, who sent their soul to their final destination. He was master of the Crystal Spire in the Fugue Plane. His followers tasked themselves with three duties. Preparing people for death by ordering their affairs, prevent things that prevent people from dying naturally, and destroying undead.
Kossuth
Kossuth was the god of elemental fire.
Lathander
Lathander was a deity of creativity, dawn, renewal, birth, athletics, spring, self-perfection, vitality, fertility, and youth. He favored those who dispelled the undead and blessed those who planted new life. He was worshiped whenever something began, be it a new business, marriage, birth, or entire community.
Leira
Leira was the goddess of deception and illusions and patroness of illusionists and liars. Regular worship to her was solely done by illusionists and con artists. Other occasions to pray to her was done by people who had secrets or wanted to protect themselves from deceit while doing something important.
Lliira
Lliira was a good lesser deity of joy, later exarch of Sune responsible for the sphere of joy. Celebrations were the occasions at which she was invoked.
Loviatar
Loviatar was the evil goddess of pain and agony, and was both queen and servant to the greater god Bane. According to her teachings, the ability to deal and endure pain were the measure for power. She was prayed to by sadists, masochists, and people who pursued jobs that included dealing pain like torturers.
Malar
Malar was the lesser deity of the hunt, evil lycanthropes, bestial savagery and bloodlust. His dogma concerned savage hunts, the spreading of the curse of lycanthropy, and general contempt for civilization. Worshipers of his were primarily people who had something to do with hunting. He was prayed by those who hunted for success at it or to scare away competition.
Mask
Mask was the god of shadows and thieves in the Faerûnian pantheon. Regular worship to him came from two groups actual thieves, and normal people who tried to appease him so he left their valuables alone.
Mielikki
Mielikki was the neutral good goddess of autumn, druids, dryads, forests, forest creatures, and rangers. She was rarely prayed to, even by rangers whom she patronized. She was viewed as protector of good people in her terrain, for example, people who were looking for children who got lost in forests prayed to her for their protection until found.
Milil
Milil was the good-aligned exarch of Oghma.[citation needed] Before the Era of Upheaval, he was venerated as the Faerûnian deity of song, poetry, eloquence, creativity and inspiration. He was the patron of bards and entertainers of all stripes prayed to him. He was predominantly worshiped by human, elf, and half-elf bards but attracted other musically-inclined individuals such as troubadours or poets.
Myrkul
Myrkul was a god of the dead in the Faerûnian pantheon. People who regularly prayed to him were rare, he was more an object of fear and considered the culprit behind aging symptoms.
Mystra
Mystra was a greater deity and the second incarnation of the goddess of magic after her predecessor Mystryl sacrificed herself to protect the Weave from Karsuss Folly. Her worshiper-base consisted of people who regularly dealt with magic, be it by spellcasting or magic items. In fact, she was the one who made magic possible for the denizens of Toril and her adherents tried to spread the use of it.
Oghma
Oghma was the neutral greater power of bards, inspiration, invention, and knowledge in Faerûn. People who dealt in some form with knowledge and ideas like clerks, inventors, sages, and the like form his worshiper-base. Anathema to his belief was the spreading of lies and ignorance.
Red Knight
The Red Knight was the Faerûnian deity of strategy and battle tactics and an exarch of Tempus. As such, average people did not pray to her. However, people who dealt with strategy of war be it in teaching or executing them, were often followers of her.
Savras
Savras was a god of divination and fate, as well as mages and wizards in the service of Mystra. Aside from people who needed the truth, like investigators, judges, or diviners, worship of him was very rare.
Selûne
Selûne was the goddess of the moon in the Faerûnian pantheon. She was worshiped by three groups of people. First, by women in her function as a mother goddess who held sway over reproductive cycles. Second, by navigators and sailors in her function as a goddess of navigation. Third, by people who needed some form of protection or guidance in darkness.
Shar
Shar was the neutral evil greater deity of darkness, loss, and the caverns of Faerûn She was regularly prayed to by people who worked in darkness and required protection, such as miners. In her loss aspect, she was prayed to by people who wanted to lose certain memories, wanted to recover their lost objects, or fell in deep despair.
Shaundakul
Shaundakul was the Faerûnian lesser deity of traveling and travelers, exploration, caravans, the wind as well as mining and miners. He was one of the gods who disappeared in the wake of the Spellplague, but returned following the Second Sundering.
Silvanus
Silvanus was the Faerûnian god of nature, and one of the oldest and most prominent gods in the pantheon. Formerly considered only the god of wilderness and druids, the Forest Father was often seen as the wilder counterpart to Chauntea the Earthmother. He stood for the notion that the untamed state was the state of nature that should be. His regular worshiper base consisted of explorers, travelers in wild areas, and denizens of rural areas.
Sune
Sune was the deity of beauty, with governance also over love. It was believed that pleasurable sensations were the touch of her and her followers, believers in true love, pursued such sensations.
Talona
Talona was the goddess of poison and disease. She was held responsible for all kind of negative matters that involved disease and poison like crop failings. This made her one of the most invoked deities but invoking her was mostly done as appeasement and her regular worshiper-base was small.
Talos
Talos was the Faerûnian greater deity of storms and destruction. He was viewed as a random natural force of destruction. His dogma was self-serving, demanding utter obedience from his priests and instructing them to spread destruction where they might. His worshiper-base consisted of the likes of marauders, their reasoning being that people should take whatever they could before Talos would randomly destroy them. Ordinary people tried to appease him.
Tempus
Tempus was the god of war. His dogma was primarily concerned with honorable battle, forbidding cowardice and encouraging the use of force of arms to settle disputes. His large worshiper-base had a lot of soldiers in it. His churchs cultural achievement was to make a set of rules for war acceptable among various nations.
Torm
Torm was the god whose portfolio consisted of duty, loyalty, and righteousness. He was the patron deity of many paladins. After the Spellplague, he became the god of law. He stood for a plethora of virtues like duty or loyalty and his worshiper-base consisted of people of every station who tried to emulate his virtues.
Tymora
Tymora was the goddess of good fortune. A large portion of her worshiper-base consisted of adventurers and gamblers. Apart from such people with risky lives, people of all stripes found some appeal in her.
Tyr
Tyr was the lawful good greater god of law and justice in the Faerûnian pantheon. His followers were not always adherents of concepts like fairness or equality, but they were adherents of the concept that offenders needed to be exposed and punished as such.
Umberlee
Umberlee was the evil sea goddess in the Faerûnian pantheon, most often worshiped by sailors or people traveling by sea, out of fear of her destructive powers. It was common in coastal communities to hold festivals to appease her as well as to beseech her for favors. Fear from sea disasters was the primary motivator of her worship.
Valkur
Valkur was an exarch of Tempus, patron of sailors, ships, favorable winds, and naval combat. He was revered by Northlanders for they saw in him their best qualities to strive for.
Waukeen
Waukeen was a lesser deity of the Faerûnian pantheon, and her portfolio included everything related to commerce and the accumulation of wealth through free and fair trade, as well as the beneficial use of wealth to improve civilization. She was also the goddess of illicit trade and the patron of many smugglers, fences, black marketeers, and "businessmen" on the shady side of commerce. Her worshiper-base consisted of people who engaged in trade including in illegal ones like smuggling. They saw a virtue in creating business opportunities, which was why they were not on good footing with guilds and monopolies.
The numerous former members could be broadly divided into two categories Faerûnian deities who vanished in the wake of the Spellplague and Second Sundering, or racial deities of other pantheons that were briefly counted as part of the Faerûnian pantheon in the interim time between those two events.
Finder Wyvernspur
Finder was one of the original Harpers who obtained his godhood by killing an avatar of Moander and became the chaotic neutral demi-power of the cycles of life and transformation of art, and saurials. He was one of the deities who disappeared in the wake of the Spellplague.
Garagos
Garagos was a Netherese god of war and exarch of Tempus, though he focused more on destruction than war itself. who lost to Tempus in a power struggle, died, and returned in 1368 DR. He survived the Spellplague as an exarch of Tempus, but disappeared in the wake of the Second Sundering.
Gargauth
Gargauth was a former archdevil and the Faerûnian demigod of betrayal and political corruption, who became a deity by killing Astaroth. He disappeared in the wake of the Spellplague, but re-surfaced after the Second Sundering as a non-divine creature with ambitions for godhood and a supplier of infernal pacts for warlocks.
Ibrandul
Ibrandul was a chaotic neutral lesser deity of the Underdark, worshiped in Calimshan and other parts of the Shining South. He was the god of caverns, dungeons, the Underdark, and skulks and was killed by Shar. His worship survived under her.
Iyachtu Xvim
Iyachtu Xvim was the half-demonic son of Bane and for a time, the lawful evil lesser deity of Fear, Hatred, and Tyranny after his fathers demise in the Time of Troubles. Around 1372 DR, his father burst out of him, he died, and his position was retaken by his father.
Karsus
Karsus was the Netherese creator and caster of the Karsuss avatar spell that triggered the Fall of Netheril and managed to become a god for a single moment. Mystryl died in the process of protecting the Weave from him and he turned out to be not competent enough to handle the divine position and became some form of unresponsive being with a cult that dedicated itself to restore him.
Lurue
Lurue was a chaotic good goddess who was often worshiped as a goddess of intelligent and talking beasts. She started as a non-human deity, but managed to make her way into the Faerûnian pantheon by gaining human worshipers. She went missing in the wake of the Spellplague, but returned in the wake of the Second Sundering as a lesser deity but not as a part of the Faerûnian pantheon.
Moander
Moander was the ancient Faerûnian deity of rot, corruption, and decay. who was killed by Finder Wyvernspur, but both his cult and he himself managed to survive in one form or the other. After the Second Sundering, he managed to make a full comeback as a deity of decay, not as a member of Faerûnian pantheon, who also acted as a supplier of Great Old Ones warlock pacts.
Nobanion
Nobanion was a primal spirit sometimes worshiped as a deity of royalty, lions, and other felines, as well as good beasts. started as a non-human deity, but managed to make his way into the Faerûnian pantheon by gaining human worshipers. In the wake of the Spellplague, he became a plague-affected monster, but was restored from this condition by Stedd Whitehorn. He was not a member of the Faerûnian pantheon after the Second Sundering.
Sharess
Sharess, the goddess of hedonism, and Bast from the Mulhorandi pantheon were one and the same person, and was collectively the deity of hedonism, festhalls and sensual fulfillment. She entered the Faerûnian pantheon by Aos decree to counterbalance Mask becoming the patron of thievery in the Old Empires because they had nobody to fill that role there. Due to her hedonistic nature, she was almost subsumed by Shar, but managed to escape from her with Sunes help. She survived the Spellplague as an exarch of Sune, but disappeared from the Faerûnian pantheon after the Second Sundering.
Shiallia
Shiallia was the goddess of the High Forest.She was the patron and protector of pregnant forest creatures, a planter of trees and nurturer of seedlings. She rejoiced in life and shielded against death. She survived the Spellplague as an exarch of Mielikki, but disappeared in the wake of the Second Sundering from the Faerûnian pantheon.
Siamorphe
Siamorphe was a demipower and goddess of nobles, nobility, and nobles divine right to rule. Her position and name was one that was handed over to the next mortal when the current one was dying. While this line survived the Spellplague as an exarch of Amaunator, the name Siamorphe was not one among those who comprised the Faerûnian pantheon after the Second Sundering.
Ulutiu
Ulutiu was the lawful neutral father of the giant-kin races and the god of glaciers, polar environments, and arctic dwellers. He had an adulterous relationship with Othea, a giant-deity who was married to their head deity Annam All-Father. When he was discovered, he negotiated with the husband that he would go into hibernation and his adulterous partner would be spared. He went missing in the wake of the Spellplague.
Uthgar
Uthgar was the god of physical strength and the Uthgardt barbarians. He was almost certainly a mortal called Morgred Gardolfsson who ascended to divinity after a successful career as a raider and founder of the Uthgardt barbarians. He survived the Spellplague as an exarch of Tempus, but disappeared in the wake of the Second Sundering.
Velsharoon
Velsharoon was the Faerûnian god of necromancy. He was a mortal who became a deity in 1368 DR.
Corellon
Corellon was the patron god of all elves. He was the head of the Seldarine, the elven pantheon. After the Spellplague, he entered the Faerûnian pantheon and left the same after the Second Sundering.
Ghaunadaur
Ghaunadaur was a greater deity and the god of abominations. He was a member of the drow pantheon, but left it when the other members died out and Lolth threatened his life. After the Spellplague, he became a member of the Faerûnian pantheon. After the Second Sundering, he returned to the Dark Seldarine.
Gruumsh
Gruumsh was a greater deity and the patriarch of the orc pantheon. After the Spellplague, he made inroads into the Faerûnian one and left it after the Second Sundering.
Lolth
Lolth was the head goddess of the drow pantheon. She made inroads into the Faerûnian pantheon as herself after the Spellplague and left it after the Second Sundering.
Moradin
Moradin was the lawful good god of the dwarves and the chief deity in their pantheon, Morndinsamman. After the Spellplague, he made inroads into the Faerûnian pantheon. He left it after the Second Sundering.