The Fetid Gaze was a coven of green hags that came together in Faerûn during the late 15 century DR.
The coven took over the Temple of the Restful Lily, a temple of Sune and bathhouse found within the High Forest. The locale was notable for being constructed around a natural spring that was rich with fey energy. The hags formed their lairs within the adjoining tower that once served as the home of the temples founder.
The hags of the Fetid Gaze each used powerful illusion magic to hide their true nature, taking on the appearance of stunningly beautiful elven sisters. They used these more alluring personas to lull patrons of the Restful Lily into a false sense of security. 
They hags would offer their unwary victims some fantastic boon for a price, entrapping them in a bargain from which they could not escape. The unfortunate soul would then be physically trapped within one of the horrific, magically crafted paintings that adorned the Lilys walls.
Each member of the Fetid Gaze knew one of the three secret processes required to create their cursed paintings. While the hags all worked together to lure in victims and accumulate greater power, each of them absolutely despised the other two and worked in secret to replace them with their own daughters.
Originally, the hags of the Fetid Gaze were quarreling rivals that dwelled within the same corner of the Feywild, which corresponded with the High Forest on Toril. In the , the hags became aware of a magical spring in the High Forest that was rich with fey magic.
Wanting the fey spring for their own control, the hags manipulated the Sunite priestess Sylvarie Silversong into handing over ownership of the Temple of the Restful Lily. They began using the house of rest to lure in and forge grim bargains with unwitting adventurers. Their treacherous actions continued for at least a decades time.
* Auntie Greenbones, the eldest hag who believed perseverance was the key to survival.
* Dread Morgan, who believed fear was the most powerful motivator.
* Vile Sazha, who despised the weak and believed only in strength of will.
The hags were served by several minions, including the cambion Saeth, a hell hound named Morty, two gargoyles and a half-dozen scarecrows that were disguised as bathhouse attendees.