The Firequench Order was an extremely secretive cabal of wizards and other spellcasters, who acted as the fire-fighting force of Tarmalune, one of the Windrise Ports. Because of their vital role in maintaining the safety of the city, they were considered heroes among the populace.
The order originally numbered a dozen wizards.
The headquarters of the order was Citadel Firequench, a massive basalt citadel west of the Raging Flames location, surrounded by the ruins of buildings destroyed by the fires of the Raging Flame, but that were forbidden to be rebuilt by the Council of Tarmalune, for "as long as the flame endured".
The main duty of the Firequench Order was to watch out for fires caused by the Raging Flame. When such fires started, the spellcasters acted quickly to put then out before they could do any lasting damage to the infrastructure of Tarmalune.
Their secondary, but most important duty was to study the true nature of the pillar of fire, and to try to extinguish it if possible, through the application of arcane knowledge and obscure rituals. 
All members of the Firequench Order wore purple hooded cloaks, and used masks to avoid their identities being known.
The Firequench Order was founded by request of the Council of Tarmalune, a few years before 1479 DR. This decision was the only universally popular decision of the Council among the populace of Tarmalune in all the history of the Council.
The Firequench Order was formerly named the Guild of Firewatchers, however the name was changed by the citizens of Tarmalune some time after its foundation.
In 1479 DR, the order discovered that the Flaming Rage was the primordial Achazar, but the only conclusion reached by the spellcasters was that they were unable to extinguish Achazar for the foreseeable future.
CategorySpellcasting organizations
CategoryOrganizations in Tarmalune
CategoryOrganizations in the Windrise Ports
CategoryOrganizations in Laerakond
CategoryOrganizations on Toril
CategoryOrganizations
CategoryGuilds
05fa6d26ybigrloluxdro5ma4xhy4na