The Fire Knives, who referred to themselves as the Redeemers Guild, were a band of assassins that operated out of the city of Westgate, under the approval of the thieves guild known as the Night Masks. 
They were particularly dangerous because of their ability to blend in with high society along with their eagerness to accept almost any job if only to hone their skills.
The group was led by Lord Tagreth Cormaeril, also referred to as the Grandfather of Assassins. Agents of the guild operated within all the major cities in Cormyr, as well as Chessenta, the Dalelands, and Sembia.
The assassins of the Fire Knives guild tended to coat their weapons in the poison of giant wasps prior to executing a target. They were not above poisoning food.
Members of the guild wore small enchanted silver disks engraved with the sigil of the organization. These small Fire Knife medallions were worn hidden underneath the assassins clothes and only revealed to fellow guild members as a method of identification.
The Fire Knives organization was founded in the , at which time it was a loose band of rogues active in the south of Cormyr.
After Cormyr reclaimed Marsember in the , the Fire Knives were blamed for the deaths of King Dhalmass Obarskyr and his wife, Jhalass, at which time they were exiled from Cormyr. Over the next century, the organization reassembled in the border regions of Cormyr such as Daerlun, Elversult, Tilverton, and Westgate, and unexplained killings continued, chiefly amongst the noble and royal houses of Cormyr.
thumb|220x220px|The  Fire Knives warning left for the heroes of Azure Bonds in Tilverton.
The Fire Knives were driven from Cormyr in  when it was discovered they were involved with the assassination of a local lord and the death of a scullery maid. Forced to flee with only what they could carry, many of the remaining members that once operated in Cormyr still possessed some heirlooms from the realm. After this routing, it was revealed that many of the members in the guild were members of the Bleth and Cormaeril families. They re-founded the organization at its base of operations in Castle Cormaeril in the .
As of the , Fire Knives found themselves aligned with the newly risen to prominence rogues guild of Westgate – the Night Masks. Together, the organization worked their way up through the citys criminal underbelly to power and influence.
Most agents of the Fire Knives were born into nobility and thus were well versed in diplomacy, disguise, and other hallmarks of high society.