century DR
The Guild of Locked Doors was a minor halfling thieves guild that operated in the city of Ravens Bluff in the mid-to-late 14 century DR.
The Guild of Locked Doors was hidden somewhere in the seedy areas of Ravens Bluff. Only trusted individuals or recruits were escorted to the guildhall whilst blindfolded. The Guild was not to be contacted. Instead, the Guild contacted those who sought it out. Few knew of the Guilds existence, and even fewer knew where its agents could be found.
The guildhall resembled a spacious dining room with many tables and a massive throne constructed out of broken doors, the Guildmasters seat. A huge circular pit could be found at the dining halls center, with a spiral staircase descending into its depths. The pit was used to test thieves skills, hiding a silver key that was to be retrieved, protected by locks, doors, traps, and a hungry green slime.
The organization only accepted halflings into its midst. Only those hin who proved themselves were considered for the Guild. The proving consisted of a trial course in the guildhouse and a certain amount of time where the Guild watched the prospective members to evaluate their skills and agenda.
The Guild of Locked Doors was established by a halfling adventurer named Knile sometime around 1345 or 1350 DR, after his previous band fell apart due to a tragedy and betrayal. Twenty-five years after Kniles adventuring group fell apart, a band of heroes of the Living City was recruited by the son of one of the halflings old comrades, Eric Luffson set out to lift the curse that had been affecting his father for over two decades. To achieve that goal, Eric directed the adventures to the Guild of Locked Doors.
The group was met by a sassy, overconfident, hooded halfling in a seedy alleyway. Toledo the hin scored the adventures to the guildhall where they met the strangest halfling of all. Knile was adorned in hides of exotic beasts and wielded a massive broadsword. Taxidermied heads of animals and monsters decorated his guildhall. The halfling guildmaster agreed to part with his part of the key if one or all of the adventurers proved their skill by descending into the pit.