The Hammers of Moradin were an order of dwarven warrior-priests, dedicated to Moradin, who served as the aggressive defenders of Citadel Adbar. They fought with the righteous fury of the All-Father, channeling their faith into unique feats of combat.
These stalwart defenders were considered to be the mortal embodiment of Moradin himself.
Rather than simply defend the walls of the citadel, work left to the regular army of the Iron Guard, the Hammers actively sought the dwarves enemies, namely goblinoids, drow elves and evil giants, and destroyed them within their respective realms.
They specifically stood guarded over the temple-fortress known as the Hall of Moradins Forge located within Citadel Adbar.
A Hammer of Moradin had a number of unique abilities, which improved the more experienced they had serving within the order. They had an inherent resistance towards attacks, could seldom be knocked over and exuded an aura of courage and could throw their warhammers with enough skill that it struck a number of enemies before returning to them.
They were particularly skilled at killing the dwarves natural racial enemies and could improve their weapons with a number of different bane enhancements.
The most experienced Hammers of Moradin were personally blessed by the dwarven deity, allowing them to travel through stone by means of the Elemental Plane of Earth. The attacks of these mighty warriors completely bypassed the armor of their foes.
Often times, the Hammers were aided by the order of explorers of the Underdark, the Deepscouts.
The Hammers drew in paladins, clerics and other divine spellcasters from around the Spine of the World who venerated the Soul Forger.
Those dwarves who betrayed either Citadel Adbar or the Hammers of Moradin lost the powers they were granted from Moradin. If they truly atoned for their actions, they would regain their abilities.
* Rorann Stonehammer, head priest of the Hall of Moradins Hammer
* Thungalos Truetemper, leader of the monastery of Thuulurn.