The Harmonium, nicknamed the Hardheads, was the faction of Sigil that maintained peace and order within the city. 
The Harmonium believed there was inherent order to the multiverse, a universal harmony that was best upheld by brutal force and strict adherence to the word of law.
The Harmonium was ruthless in the execution of keeping the peace, They demonstrated no empathy or compassion for the unfortunate souls of Sigil, regardless of their personal circumstances.
Harmonium members underwent an eight-week indoctrination regimen. This process included exhaustive physical training, strict memorization of Harmonium doctrine, approximate familiarization with Sigils municipal laws, and rigorous evaluations that involved being blindfolded and abandoned within the city. 
thumb|right|300px|A hard-headed member of the Harmonium.
In addition to typical law enforcement techniques, They were granted authority to destroy any written material that was created and distributed without their prior approval.
Harmonium patrols carried with them planar mancatchers, pole arm-like devices that inhibited inter-planar travel and transportation.
Among the other factions of Sigil, the Harmonium were openly opposed by the Bleak Cabal and the Fated. They were however kept in check by Sigils Doomguard, which controlled the citys armory. By limiting access to weaponry, the Doomguard prevented the Harmonium starting outright war in the name of peace. 
The Harmonium was founded on a world called Ortho by a band of adventurers that sought to bring peace and law to the land. After finding inexplicable success in this endeavor, the group reformed as the Harmonium and expanded their ambitions. Harmonium law eventually spread across the entire world. Every humanoid race that survived Harmonium expansion enjoyed peaceful, regimented, and delightfully oppressive lives, free from trouble-making fey creatures like elves or pixies. The sacrifice of joy and happiness was but a small price to pay. 
When occasional eruptions of disorder and anarchy emerged, Harmonium leadership believed some force beyond their world was responsible. They established their faction in Sigil, and used the City of Doors as a staging point, from which they could stamp out disorder across every planet and plane of existence.