The Hin Fist was a halfling, or hin, monastic order from Luiren in the mid–14 century DR. Members were commonly also known as hin fists
The followers of the Hin Fist turned their peoples natural great confidence into a spiritual path of self-belief and the power of one halfling to master both themselves and the world. However, they believed that one had to master the self before being able to master the outside, which led to a tradition of solitude.
A hin fist believed the goddess Yondalla gifted them with their body and mind, so they should develop and use them as best as they could, rather than rely on made things for weapons. Their beliefs were strict and only those true of heart could join. They viewed themselves as the protectors of halflings everywhere.
They followed the gods of the halfling pantheon, Yondalla most of all, but also Arvoreen, Cyrrollalee, Sheela Peryroyl, and Urogalan (so, not Brandobaris).All accounts of the Hin Fist link them only to Yondalla, but the "Deity Dos and Donts" Web Enhancement for Faiths and Pantheons assigns them to all halfling deities except Brandobaris. Therefore, this article assumes all these gods may be followed by members. Alternatively, these other halfling deities have their own monastic orders similar to those of Yondallas Hin Fist. They were quite devout and must be lawful and/or lawful good in character.
They fought unarmed and their techniques were based around using an opponents size and strength against them and avoiding blows and taking down those larger than them. Rather than grapple, they could train to get under an opponents guard with ease and even use them for cover against attacks from them and others, and rather than deflecting projectiles, they could learn tripping maneuvers. They trained in tumbling and could use this skill to create such a blur of motion they could make an attack even while committing fully to defense. Finally, rather than evade effects, they could advance their tripping tactics when they got under and tripped a foe, all their allies could seize the opportunity to strike against them. 
They taught other halflings the basics of their style for self-defense, including unarmed combat this could be recognized as a lesser form of the hin fist style.
Members were primarily monks, typically following a form of the Way of the Open Hand. Monks of the Hin Fist could cross-train freely as rogues, fighters, and paladins, typically of Yondalla. Lawful, good, and experienced hin fists of Luiren who followed Yondalla could become sacred fists.Shining South suggests an adapted sacred fist prestige class as a hin fist class, but this contradicts earlier and later versions of it as a variant monk base class. Therefore, this article assumes regular monks of the Hin Fist may become sacred fists.
Hin fists were usually based at their temples and monasteries in Luiren, focusing on their training. Owing to their desire for solitude, these tended to be secluded, even isolated, and they warned others away.
When not in training, they traveled either singly or in small bands and fought as Yondallas champions, both across Luiren and beyond in wider Faerûn. They righted wrongs against halflings and tested their prowess in battle with other martial artists. They also taught other halflings self-defense.
The order was founded in Luiren after halflings there were granted divine inspiration by Yondallas Children, the pantheon of halfling deities.
In the late 15 century DR, a few Hin Fist monasteries were opened outside Luiren, whose masters made their teachings available to any non-halflings who were willing to follow them.
Most monasteries of the order were located in Luiren, where the membership was exclusively halflings. They were also found at temples to Yondalla dedicated to defense of the realm.
However, some enterprising masters established monasteries outside Luiren, and a few opened the order and its teachings to gifted dwarf and gnome students willing to follow the same path.
The monks developed the magical Gloves of the Hin Fist, which struck with sonic energy, to forewarn others of the halflings fighting prowess in order to avoid unnecessary conflicts during their training.