Sanrach Basin
House Sauringar was one of the greater tribes (hasrammass) of the yuan-ti.
House Sauringar maintained a large holding in the Chultengar They also had members living in northern Chult, northern Calimshan, and Narubel.
Secretly, the Sauringans were the true rulers of the city-state of Narubel. They also had a strong influence over the actions of the Rundeen. For centuries they supported the Rundeen with targeted acts of piracy.
Members of House Sauringar employed the "to the egg return" ritual, sharing the practice with the Extaminos and SeSehen tribes.
Magical serpent rings were favored by members of House Sauringar.
House Sauringar was closely allied with House SeSehen, which was a far more powerful tribe. The Sauringans benefited the latter house by secretly influencing the Rundeen, guiding the merchant consortium against selecting Tashalan leaders with ophiophobia. These actions eventually led to House SeSehen allying itself with the Rundeen.
Also allied with the Sauringar tribe were the spirit nagas of the Chultengar.
For hundreds of years, the Sanrach Basin was the home of the Sauringans.
The Sauringar tribe was finally driven from their ancient lands in 605 DR by humans led by a lord of Nimbral.
Most Sauringans with snake bodies possessed the ability to puff out their skin, increasing the size of their bodies to appear more threatening, similar to puff adders. Sauringans living in Chult and Calimshan were served by human cultists who worshiped Varae.
* DiNastassa, the pureblood chosen one of a jahi, led a cabal of Sauringans in the depths of the jungles of Samarach. This Harim of the Jahi sought to reclaim the Chultan Peninsula for the yuan-ti.
* SaSani, a princess of House Sauringar and priestess of Sseth, held a public position as the head of a merchant company in Samarachs capital Samargol. She was expelled from the city in 1374 DR over the exposure of one of her employees as a yuan-ti. Aided by an adventurer party in her employ, she moved her base of operations to Crossroad Keep in the Sword Coast North and prosecuted a counterinsurgency against Zehirs Snaketongue cult, which had come to control House SeSehen.