House Tsarran was a drow house from Maerimydra that worshiped the goddess Kiaransalee.
The house was led by Irae Tsarran and by her immediate family. Like other drow houses, the offspring of the matron mother, Dorina Tsarran and Zedarr Tsarran, were the next most influential members, often being given important tasks or preferential treatment by their mother. 
Dorina Tsarrans nieces, Velina and Velasta Tsarran, were ranked just below Iraes children.
The numerous other members of House Tsarran were drow who were willing to fight for and bear the insignia of the House, and they lay beneath the noble family.
As adherents to Kiaransalee, the House would try to enact her will under the guidance of Irae.
House Tsarran was a vengeful house, with a tendency to enact vengeance upon any who crossed them. They were willing to expend the lives of their drow soldiers more readily than other houses this was because they believed their foot soldiers could easily be raised as stronger undead later.
Originally, House Tsarran was based in Maerimydra in the Deep Wastes. However, after the House was destroyed by a rival house, Irae Tsarran and its other surviving members remained lurking in the shadows until they could enact their vengeance. 
A few unique items were held by members of House Tsarran. One was the arachnid-themed eyes of the spider, which granted the wearer formidable ocular powers.
A powerful artifact, known as the claw of the revenancer, was also possessed by the leader of both House Tsarran and the local cult of Kiaransalee.  
During the Silence of Lolth, Irae Tsarran was in possession of both these items.
The house had strong ties with the cult of Kiaransalee after Irae Tsarran took up worship of the Vengeance-mad, with all of its noble members worshiping the death goddess by 1372 DR.
After the almost total destruction of the House in Maerimydra by a rival house, Irae Tsarran spent the entirety of its remaining members efforts toward gaining vengeance against the drow that had doomed them, notably, House Chûmavh.
During Irae Tsarrans youth, House Tsarran was one of the many drow noble houses in Maerimydra. However, one day while Irae was away from the city, the other noble houses of the city turned a blind eye to the destruction of the rest of her house by a rival. It was this event that caused her to turn to Kiaransalee and, with the scant few survivors of the houses destruction, to remain hidden in Maerimydra until they could enact their vengeance.,
On Eleasis 28, 1372 DR, the Silence of Lolth plunged Maerimydras clergy into disarray, as suddenly the prayers of all Lolth-worshipers went unanswered. Meanwhile, the clerics of House Tsarran retained their powers, thanks to their worship of Kiaransalee. When an army of goblinoids, giants, and demons led by Kurgoth Hellspawn attacked the city on Eleint 23, the members of House Tsarran prepared to climb to the top of the new chaos.
By Eleint 28, Irae led her followers in slaughtering the last surviving house responsible for permitting the past destruction of House Tsarran. With the defeat of House Chûmavh, Irae claimed Castle Maerimydra as her new seat of power. From there they struck out at and destroyed Duneth Wharreil and his Shattered Tower on Marpenoth 2. With a strong foothold in the city and after finally enacting her revenge against the nobles responsible for the fall of her house, Irae set her sights on greater power beyond the city and fell into a protracted siege with Kurgoth Hellspawns forces.
Eventually House Tsarran even extended its influence to the drow outpost of Szith Morcane on Marpenoth 12. There, Iraes daughter Dorina Tsarran overthrew House Morcane and seized control of the settlement.
* Irae Tsarran, Matron Mother of House Tsarran and leader of the cult of Kiaransalee in Maerimydra.
* Dorina Tsarran, vampire daughter of Irae.
* Zedarr Tsarran, son of Irae
* Velasta Tsarran, niece of Dorina.
* Velina Tsarran, niece of Dorina.