House Extaminos was a tribe of yuan-ti known for their scientific experiments. Members of this tribe were called Extaminaar.
As of the , House Extaminos center of power was Hlondeth in the Vilhon Reach. However, the Extaminaar infiltrated key positions in and under many cities spread across Faerûn.
Originally an offshoot of House SeSehen, the Extaminaar remained close allies with the SeSehren over the centuries.
The Extaminaar served as trade agents for House SeSehen, controlling a wide array of illicit activities through the various thieves guilds and adventuring groups under their sway.
Nearly all Extaminaar enjoy conducting experiments on captured creatures. These experiments involved magic, drugs, and harsh training regimens that resulted in a variety of useful guardians and servants. These experiments were done with the approval of the elders provided they did not draw unwanted attention to the House.
The Extaminaars fondness for experimentation did not end with captured subjects. Many Extaminaar grafted additional appendages to their bodies. Some of these appendages were as long as , and usually kept coiled around their body and hidden beneath loose clothing. The coiled appendages also made the Extaminaar appear larger than they truly were.
House Extaminos split from House SeSehen occurred when a pair of strong claimants for leadership of House SeSehen rose to power. Instead of crippling the house with pointless civil war, the two decided to split and allow any SeSehen to choose which side they would follow. The claimants group with the greater numbers would remain as House SeSehen, while the other would form a new house and lead his followers to a new location.
The newly formed house ventured northeast in a dangerous journey in search of a new home. They eventually settled in the Ankhwood and Chondalwood. Attacks from outsiders weakened the group at both locations, prompting them to regather and retreat to the Orsraun Mountains. Human nobles from the nearby House Extaminos stumbled upon the yuan-ti rituals of Varae and began calling on the yuan-ti for aid. Years of crossbreeding between human and yuan-ti led to the yuan-tis genetic dominance of House Extaminos. It was at this point where they began calling themselves Extaminaar.