The Inquest was the a group of brilliant inventors that acted as the governing body of the Abeiran city of Xorvintroth.
Using the Supreme Forge within Xorvintroth, members of the Inquest crafted a number of powerful and technologically-advanced artifacts. The devices they created great improved the lives of citizens within their city.
They accomplished this feat by combining power they harnessed from the Far Realm along with that of psionics.In the adventure Expedition to the Supreme Forge the term "mind magic" is used, rather than psionics.
They recorded their discoveries upon stone tablets,
Notable among the groups inventions were far realm batteries, a teleportation ray, used to quickly convey individuals across their city, the autonomous metallic peacekeepers, and perhaps their greatest creation, the dragonbone golem.
The Inquest comprised Xorvintroths most elite dragonborn artificers. Among these great minds were selected four elders, who actually constructed the groups devices within the Astral Plane.
At the time of the Inquests ruination, its four elders included Ukthet, Lirith, Krektesh, and Graoul.
They maintained a working relationship with the Key Project team, via that groups liaison RaBindranax.
Over time, the Inquests elders became concerned their advancements would be taken over by the dragon rulers of Abeir. They were visited shortly thereafter by a being known as the Emissary of the Nine Eyes, who offered them information about another world on which they could peacefully conduct their research.
The Inquest began construction on a "bridge", or portal,
Unfortunately for the Inquest and all the dragonborn of Xorvintroth, the Vast Gate proved to be the harbinger of their doom. The moment it was activated, the fabric of reality was torn asunder and countless horrors from the Far Realm descended upon the city. The Inquests four elders remained as "spectral echoes" within the Astral Plane, while their still-living brains remained interred within coffins in the ruins of Xorvintroth.