The Living Axes were a dwarven cult dedicated to the worship of sentient items. Unlike other cults, which were short lived, the Living Axe resurfaced periodically.
Living Axe sects typically worshiped and obeyed the orders of sentient weapons, but most commonly those that were axes. These weapons were often either the prison of a malevolent spirit or being controlled by one.
Members of the Living Axe believed that the numerous magical items created over the years by dwarven smiths were guided by a divine inspiration that lived within the items themselves. They often sought to extend the rule of the items that led them over other dwarves and even small communities of halflings, humans, and gnomes. Having even gone to war at times to do so.
Some of sects cults adhered to the principles of the faith of Clangeddin Silverbeard, but the majority strayed very far from them.
Other members of the organization sought to create more magical weapons - this often took the form of two weapons that were inspired by relics of Myth Drannor, the guardian blade and watch axe.
Living Axe priests typically carried multiple throwing axes and wore fantastical piked helmets.
Over the centuries, the Dwarven god Clangeddin Silverbeard embraced some of sects of this cult in hopes of making sentient weapons part of his portfolio and of folding those sects into the more orthodox branches of his battle-loving faith. Spells were even granted by Clangeddin to those cultists who adhered to his faiths principles, if not its ritual practices. However, he had little patience for those led by weapons that were sentient due to an insane or malevolent spirit. Because of this and so few of these sects adhering to his principles, the majority of Living Axe cults were granted spellcasting powers by other deities.
* The Living Axe was the most prominent leader among the Living Axe cults. It was a double-bladed, bronzed adamantine watch axe of unknown origin, from which the organization got its name. Some priests of Clangeddin suspected that it was in charge of many of the most depraved Living Axe cults.