The Lords of Dust was a secret organization of fiends and mortals in the world of Eberron. It sought to find and release god-like fiends known as the Overlords, which had been imprisoned within Eberrons underworld of Khyber.
The upper echelons of the Lords of Dust were dominated by rakshasas, and the lower ranks were made up of more disposable local humans and other pawns. They were supported by creatures like hezrou, jariliths, hellhounds, death knights, and fire reavers.
300px|thumb|The Lords of Dusts temple to the Spinner of Shadows.
Though well separated, connections between Eberron and foreign worlds did exist. The Overlord known as the Spinner of Shadows, long trapped in her prison, was actually an independent fragment of the demon-goddess Lolth. The capricious and ambitious Queen of Spiders set forth a plot that would increase her power, albeit at the expense of Eberrons existence.
The cult devoted to the Spinner of Shadows had a safehouse in the harbor of the city of Stormreach. Within, they gathered their forces and performed sacrifices to their dark mistress, commanded by the rakshasa Gnomon and the drow Karas. Their activities drew the attention of the Silver Flames forces, who had been infiltrated by the Gnomon in the guise of a trusted inquisitor. He personally led a team of local adventurers and the novice Corin Dryden into the hideout and betrayed them, but his victims managed to fight their way out of the trap and destroyed much of the cult. Gnomon and Karas met the interlopers at their shrine to the Spinner of Shadows, only to be cut down as well.
300px|thumb|The Spinner was freed by overly-optimistic rakshasas.
Karass death proved to be the final sacrifice needed to activate the great ritual that they had been working towards—a long tunnel into the depths of Khyber was blasted open in the nearby harbor, allowing nearly direct access to the Spinners Prison. Even as the Silver Flame began their investigation into this new problem, the Lords of Dust were at work undoing the wards and protections laid upon the Prison. In the process, they also began harvesting the dragonshards that lined the caverns.
By the time the Silver Flame forces caught up with the Lords of Dust, they had already breached the Prison and were at work freeing the Spinner of Shadows. They used the captured dragonshards that they had looted to weaken the bonds upon the demonic lord, with only the Silver Flame Guardian of the Prison holding it at bay. At the moment that they loosened the bindings, the rakshasas implored the Spinner to turn its power to freeing the other Overlords, but the Spinner simply laughed and slew them, announcing her allegiance to Lolth alone.
300px|thumb|As her portal to Eberron grew, the Lords of Dust would be devoured or enslaved by Lolth.
After a lengthy battle between the Silver Flames forces and the Spinner of Shadows, she tore a hole into the Demonweb Pits where Lolth herself awaited, and departed to join her sister. The portal remained, however, and began expanding. It threatened to consume all of Eberron—Lords of Dust included—and add it to Lolths tapestry of looted and conquered treasures. While the Gatekeepers tried to slow the consumption of Eberron, the adventurers that had faced the Spinner of Shadows were sent into the Demonweb Pits to find a solution there, ultimately coming across Elminster, Faerûn, and Lolths hunt for the Thread of the Weave.
300px|thumb|Fiends made up the heavy-hitters of the Lords of Dust.
Around the time of the Spinner of Shadows escape, the Lords of Dust included the following
* Gnomon, a rakshasa lord.
* Karas, a drow commander.
* Marideth, a senior human cultist.
* Sabriz Rinzyn Kho, a drow priestess.
* Tahmael, a rakshasa lord.