The Norns were a group of goddesses of fate in the Norse pantheon.Both Deities & Demigods and On Hallowed Ground give no exact power level of the Norns, though Legends & Lore states they are lesser gods. The later published Deities and Demigods also provided them no specific power level. While not directly worshiped on Toril, legends of the Norns and their destiny-spinning powers were common in the Realms.
In either Asgard or the Outlands, the Norns could be found beneath one of Yggdrasils roots in their own divine realm, known as the the Well of Urd,
All the Norns had some degree of magic resistance, could only be harmed by enchanted weapons,
The members of the Norns often fought with enchanted daggers.
The three primary members of the Norns were known as Urd, Verdandi, and Skuld. Respectively they were, in their true forms, a giantess, an elf, and a dwarf. The three of them were believed to represent the past, present, and future.
Beyond those three, there were many other Norns of lesser rank, some of whom resembled elves and dwarves.
The Norns tended to Yggdrasil, and often advised the deities of the Norse pantheon on special situations.
Both mortals and deities sought them out at the Well of Urd to have their fortunes foretold, but they were largely unwilling to reveal such things unless they dealt with themselves. Though they were willing to answer questions of slight import, sometimes for large fees.
Many of the other activities of the Norns were surrounded in myths. The Asgardians believed that the Norns marked out their fate, or wyrd as they called it, at the moment of their birth. Some went so far as to claim that they shaped the destinies of all sentient creatures throughout the multiverse, traveling throughout the Prime Material plane in the form of swans to deal out each persons fate in the form of prophecy.
The Asgardians believed that the primary Norns would arrive disguised as some combination of three animals at a childs birth. They also believed that if the parents recognized the Norns and offered all three great gifts, such as items made of gold and silver, they would be willing to reveal the newborns fate. 
Others believed that doing so would persuade the Norns to dictate a great future for the child. But if gifts of equal value werent given, or the parents had unknowingly offered one of the gifts to a mundane animal, it was believed one of the Norns would become offended and turn the gifts of her peers into a curse. Though others dismissed this notion of persuading for a better fate, as they believed there was no force that could alter their decision of a beings decreed fate.
At some point the primary Norns foresaw that a member of the Norse pantheon, Hod the Blind, would one day slay the deity Baldur with a spear of mistletoe. As a result of their prophesy, Hod was exiled from Asgard.
Some centuries prior to the Time of Troubles, in the kingdom of Bakar, a survivor state of the Imaskar Empire, a mighty city known as Medinat Muskawoon housed temples to gods of faiths that the populaces ancestors brought over from their original worlds. Among these temples was one dedicated to Balder, known simply as the Temple of Balder, and inn front of it stood a semi-circle of stones, a shrine dedicated to the Norns. It was magically warded to keep out all wooden objects, especially mistletoe, and was meant to act as protection for Balder against fate and all who would seek to do him harm.
When a group of adventurers explored the ruins of Medinat Muskawoon in the , the Norns appeared before them at their shrine and asked the adventurers a set of three questions  &ndash "What is your family?", "What do you seek in this city?", and "What do you wish from us?" The adventurers answered them swiftly and truthfully, confessing that they were there in search of the Star of Mo-Pelar. Satisfied, the Norns provided them information and allowed them to pass.As Desert of Desolation was adapted to the Realms using Ed Greenwoods first materials sent over to TSR, it is taken to predate the rest of the 1 edition products, which were set in 1357 DR, but to be set close enough in time that those would remain valid. Thus, the date of 1356 DR is chosen.
At some point Breidablik, the divine hall of Baldur, suffered three terrible omens that were thought to be the work of the Norns. These included ravens roosting in the eaves of the hall, a fensir raiding the hall and kidnapping one of its brewmistresses, and about a thousand Breidabliks wine barrels suddenly going sour and turning into vinegar. Baldurs petitioners became worried that it was only a matter of time before a raiding party came to their doorstep, demanding a sacrifice for the Norns, and rumors began to circulate that a lottery might be held to determine who would be given up for such a task.
The Norns were largely not known to be worshiped on the Prime Material And they were worshiped alongside Odin in the gate-town of Glorium.
Sometimes groups gathered in prayer to the Norns when they sought aid in obtaining hidden knowledge.
* Faerûnian legends stated that the Norns spun, measured, and cut the destinies of mortal beings, like working with fabric.
* Some myths claimed that each individual had their own dedicated Norn.
* Some claimed that the Norns were all proxies that served the embodiment of fate itself.
* The artisan elves of Svartelheim claimed that they learned their skills of weaving from the three primary Norns.