The Olympian pantheon was a tight pantheon of gods, They were sometimes called the Greek pantheon, including by its own members, as that was the name of a collection of city-states on another world where they were worshiped. The members of this pantheon were little known in the Realms, but had some degree of influence or power to grant spells in Realmspace.
The members of this pantheon largely resembled humans,
The Olympians were largely uninterested in innovation, with the exception of some members like Hephaestus, as they chose to focus on emotional and spiritual matters rather than the technological. And they tended to offer their aid to mortals indirectly, as it was the preference of Zeus.
Though they were a tight pantheon, and not as chaotic as the Norse pantheon and Seldarine, they were still not very cohesive due to some of the more chaotic aspects of their personalities, which Zeus encouraged to a certain extent. It was not uncommon for them to cause mishaps for their fellow members followers. They were also rather insular, being neither open nor welcoming of new deities, preferring to display their pantheons might by crushing new deities under their heel before bringing them into the fold.
The members of this pantheon chiefly resided upon Mount Olympus, Some thought the Olympians all lived atop the mountains snowy heights, It was only Zeus and Hera who lived atop the mountain, within a great citadel of polished gold and marble.
The deity Poseidon resided within Ossa, Arboreas second layer, though maintained a seaside shrine near Mount Olympus. Pan and Prometheus lived in the hinterlands of Olympus, rarely visiting the mountain proper. Both Hades and Hecate had divine realms in the plane of Hades, which was connected to Mount Olympus by the latters twisting caverns. Hades lived in the third layer of the plane that shared his name, while Hecate had a divine realm in both the third layer of HadesTales of the Outer Planes identifies Hecates divine realm as residing on Phlegethos, the fourth layer of the Nine Hells, but the later books Guide to Hell and Fiendish Codex II Tyrants of the Nine Hells change its location as being in the third layer, Minauros.
Within a location on the mountain known as the Vast Temple, the Olympians kept a book of their pantheons history. Bound in the bones of mythical creatures and fallen heroes, the Great Theogony recounted the emergence of the multiverse from their perspective.
Athena.png|273px|A standard Olympian pantheon house of worship.
The original worshipers of this pantheon were largely humans. Those who did could be of any alignment and choose any of the following divine domains
Air, Animal, Chaos, Charm, Community, Creation, Death, Destruction, Earth, Evil, Fire, Good, Healing, Knowledge, Law, Luck, Trickery, War, Water, or Weather. 
Polygots were known to ask each of the Olympian pantheons deities for intervention in matters that reflected their interests. Such as asking Athena for an oracular vision or asking Hades for the ability to repel undead.
Across multiple crystal spheres, this pantheon was venerated as part of the Planar Church of Olympus, which had a sect in Realmspace.
Within the Outlands city of Sigil, there stood temples to Apollo, Hermes, and Zeus. Some of the proxies of these deities could also be found within the city, specifically within The Ladys Ward. Also in the Outlands, the gate-town of Sylvania had a large temple to the pantheon as a whole.
In regards to the planar factions that resided in Sigil and elsewhere, Hades was revered by the Dustmen, Athena and Zeus by the Fraternity of Order, the Furies by the Mercykillers, Zeus by the Sign of One, Aphrodite by the Society of Sensation, and Tyche by the Xaositects.
In Greatspace, the good-aligned Olympians were worshiped and Zeus was believed to be the creator of the crystal sphere. Some people in Greatspace believed that the evil members of this pantheon, such as Hades and Hecate, didnt exist and were just rumors started centuries ago.
Hades was also worshiped by one group of humans within the Astromundi Cluster under the name of Yul.