The Order of Crimson Warlocks was one of the four branches of the Kossuthan clergy at the Flaming Brazier temple in Bezantur, Thay. The Order was created in the mid-to-late 14 century DR to allow the Red Wizards of Thay to formally join the temple in nominal leadership roles.
The Kossuthan clergy within the Flaming Brazier was traditionally broken up into three branches the Firewalkers (priests), the Disciples of the Salamander (monks), and the Knights of the Fire Drake (crusaders). Within these branches, hierarchy was very strict. However, Red Wizards who joined the Order of Crimson Warlocks could simply choose any rank within the hierarchy that they personally believed best suited them. This led most of them to choose the highest possible title available Most Fervid Fire, the second highest rank in the temple, which otherwise denoted the leader of one of the other three branches of the clergy.
Members of the Order of Crimson Warlocks had no formal duties, and most joined simply for their own amusement or ego rather than out of devotion to Kossuth. While members of the true Kossuthan clergy would outwardly show deference to commands from higher-ranking Order members, they often did not obey these commands without first seeking the approval of their "real" superiors.
The Order of Crimson Warlocks was introduced sometime before  by the high priest of the Flaming Brazier, Eternal Flame Mythalanir, who did so in order to build political ties with the Red Wizards. The creation of this fourth branch of the clergy was understood to be a violation of Kossuths strictures, however it was successful in its goal of pandering to the Red Wizards.
Only Red Wizards or similarly influential Thayan mages&mdashsuch as nobles or the apprentices of Red Wizards&mdashwere permitted to join the Order.
Notable members as of the mid-to-late 14 century DR included
* Mantorra Hennaflame, a gifted apprentice of Aznar Thrul.
* Grilyanthyn, an elementalist who traveled from the Flaming Brazier to investigate a Kossuthan curse in Procampur.