The Order of the Blue Moon, whose individual members were referred to as Knights of the Blue Moon, was an arcane knightly order dedicated to serve of the second incarnation of Mystra, and her divine mother, Selûne. While the order was small, they proved their devotion to both goddesses by defending their part of Faerûn against the agents of the dark goddess Shar, in the years after the Time of Troubles.
Their name was inspired by the small changes that appeared in the Weave that sprang up across the Realms on nights when the moon was full. On those occasions, it took on a distinct bluish hue.
Due to the small numbers within their order, knights of the blue moon often hired adventurers to aid them in their missions against the agents of Shar. On occasion they would accompany adventuring bands, if their goals coincided with their own. 
Knights of the Blue Moon draw upon the influence that the moon had over the Weave, their offensive and defensive skills changed in response to the waxing and waning of Selûne. The Knights of the Blue Moon called upon both arcane and divine magic in their service. 
Depending on the phase of the moon, knights of the Blue Moon would receive divine boons from Selûne. On the days and nights around a new moon they were warded against harmful magic. On those around a full moon the power of their spellcasting could be bolstered.
Novice knights were granted improved sight in the form of lunar vision in order to combat the forces of darkness. Over time their vision was blessed by magic, a boon known as weavesight.
By drawing upon the power of the moon, Knights of the Blue Moon could distinctly  mark their foes in battle, bolster their lunar magic, and even imbue their weapons with Selûnes silver light. 
In combat, knights of the Blue Moon exercised great judiciousness. They carefully chose when and how to engage the forces of Shar, preferring harrying attacks that allowed for rapid retreats and redeployment.
The Order of the Blue Moon only met together at the Hall of Reflected Moonlight on the nights of the full moon. At these meetings they discussed their collective aims and planned out operations to best carry them out.
During the rest of the days of each month, the knights carried out their daily operations from the House of the Moon, the Selûneite temple in Waterdeep.
While the order had no preferred weapons or armor for its knights to wield, they often utilized the preferred weapons of their goddesses, the heavy mace for Selûne and the "whirlstar" for Mystra.
As a whole, the order was supported by both the Mystran and Selûnite faiths, though in greater part by the latter church.
Knights of the Blue Moon were capable of attracting unique steeds that shared their outlook on morality in a similar manner as paladins of the Realms.
Some folks of the realms saw the veneration of both Mystra and Selûne as something quite heretical.
The order was founded shorty after the Time of Troubles, in the . The Waterdhavian churches of Mystra and Selûne each believed that a united knightly order, representing each faith, was needed to combat the efforts of Shar and her evil schemes. Shortly thereafter both the House of the Moon and the Mystran House of Wonder each received a visit from a mysterious aasimar. 
This individual was Xale, an extraplanar traveler who ventured from his home of Selûnarra on the Gates of the Moon after receiving visions of the moon Selûne, surrounded by the seven stars of Mystra. He answered the call to lead this new order of knights in service to the two goddesses to which he was devoted.
In their early years, they were hardly known beyond the city of Waterdeep, generally regarded with wariness and suspicion.
In order to join the order, an individual was required to live up to the tenets of the Mystran and Selûneite faiths, as well as take an oath to either one of the goddesses. Additionally they were asked to possess some affinity with lunar magic.
Individuals with sorcerous skill were favored due to the matter with which the Knights cast their spells, though bards and even paladins were also found among their numbers.
* Xale of the Starry Glen, High Moonknight and leader of the order.