The Order of the Half Moon, also known as the Knights of the Half Moon, was a religious order devoted to Selûne and part of the priesthood at the House of the Moon in Waterdeep in the mid-to-late 14 century DR.
They were composed of crusaders
250px|Uton and another Knight questioning Timoth as he tries, and fails, to pass himself off as a convert.
The Knights of the Half Moon were distinctively attired in blue-tinted steel skullcaps and sea-blue full-length robes with long collars draping below the shoulders and hemmed with a ring of embroidered full-moon designs. In addition, each member had a tattoo of a crescent moon on their forehead. They were also armed with "moonpoles"—unique polearms topped with crescent-moon blades similar to bardiches.
They defended the House of the Moon, with six-strong patrols of the temple passing some areas two or three times an hour and groups of two or three standing guard constantly in the Entrance Hall, Narthex, the East and West Guard Towers, and particularly in the Chamber of the Shard, which held the greatest artworks.
Based at the House of the Moon, the members and their commanders lived within the dormitories of the Garrison of the Half Moon on the third floor at the rear of the temple.
The Order of the Half Moon was originally founded to guard the High House of Stars, the first temple to Selûne in Waterdeep that was opened in the . However, in the , Sharran cultists infiltrated the High House of Stars via its cellars from Undermountain, killed most of the priests, looted the vaults, and burnt it down. They even framed followers of Bane for the crime. Thereafter, the Knights of the Half Moon considered this a stain on their honor and they still sought atonement by 1370 DR.
During the Time of Troubles of the Year of Shadows, 1358 DR, a purported avatar of Selûne established herself in the House of the Moon. When confronted by Luna, the temple guards took Luna captive and beat Vajra Valmeyjar. A dozen nights later, while looking for Luna, the adventurer Onyx the Invincible infiltrated the temple and fought with the two Knights of the Half Moon on duty at the doors in the Entrance Hall, before letting in Timoth Eyesbright and the two overcame the Knights. The pair stole their priestly robes and tried to pass themselves off as new converts when called out by two other Knights, Uton and another. But unconvinced, they alerted high priestess Naneatha Suaril, who confronted them while Uton and the other took back their robes. She left them to be dealt with by hell hounds instead.
* Uton