The Seekers of the Dawn was an order of Lathanderite priests that operated within ruins of Myth Drannor in Cormanthor, during the 13 and 14 centuries DR.
The Seekers of the Dawn strived to rebuilt what areas of the city they could and serve as shepherds and guides to those dared to venture into the dangerous fallen city. They secreted away what magical items they found in the ruins, and either repaired them if possible hide them away from those who may have abused their powers. Some of their clergy drew great inspiration from these discoveries and used that to tinker with new inventions.
The priests led simple lives, growing their own crops and food, eking out a humble life in a dangerous locale in the Realms. They adhered to the most essential of Lathanderite rituals and observances. They prayed to the Morninglord together at dawn, often enjoyed early morn discussions about their shared faith, before ending their morning services with a recitation of the Sunrise Chant.
Seekers of the Dawn were granted access to a wide variety of divine spells by the Morning, many of which were focused on providing healing and aid to others.
Over the course of their time at Dawnspire, some of the Seekers developed a divine means of controlling some of the more threatening local insects. They had learned to gain control over the giant aratha beetles that could be encountered deep in the Cormanthor forest.
The order was headquartered in the Dawnspire, a tower of their own construction in Myth Drannor.
One a few members of the order wore or even owned the golden sun-robes that were so often associated with Lathanderite priests, as many of them often preferred to don simple, ankle-length cassocks during services.
As befitting an order of adventurer-priests, the Seekers of the Dawn regularly wore chainmail armor, bore appropriate weapons during their journeys, and when necessary, utilized some of the magical items they discovered throughout their time in Myth Drannor.
Some time during the mid 1200s DR, Lathander appeared to some of his faithful and bestowed upon them a holy relic known as the Dawnstone. The god of rebirth directed them to venture into the ruined elven city of Myth Drannor and begin construction of the tower that was built in his name.
* Baerant Telcharr, one of orders lead adventurer-priests.
* Danreth Tallathern, Hand of Lathander.
* Gundlar Ironcrown, Prior of the Dawnspire.