The Ito family, more colloquially known as the Seven Swords clan, was a noble family in Maeshi Province in Kozakura until 647 DR.
The Ito family started with Ito no Juro who, around 24 DR, led a wing of the army of Prince Miki in battling the local korobokuru in Maeshi. Around 31 DR, Juros brother Ito no Saburo Takanori was granted governorship of Maeshi and Kanahanto Provinces by the prince. Miki died in the great korobukuru counteroffensive led by Inoyep in 32 DR and Takanori was besieged in his fort but at last gave his own daughter Shen to Akarweop, a local korobokuru chieftain, to end the siege. In 34 DR, thanks to Takanoris daughters manipulations, Akarweop and other chieftains were captured and put to death by Emperor Itonin.
Around 207 DR, Lord Ito Kajo divided the provinces of Maeshi and Kanahanto up between his two sons, Manju and Kunitake. In 211 DR, Manju killed Kunitake with poison but the emperor and his vassals denounced him and he lost all his titles and inheritances and was subsequently slain by Kunitakes son, Ito Tokiharu. Afterward, Tokiharu was granted governorship of only Maeshi.
Around 312 DR, Lord Ito Moriyasu refused to force the korobokuru out of Maeshi like all the other lords, so they gifted him with the Seven Swords. The family seal even changed to seven joined swords after them.
Around 546 DR, the Nambu family, a branch of the Ito family, split from the main clan. For the next seventeen years, they feuded over possession of the Seven Swords. Finally, around 563 DR, the Nambu won the swords and control of Maeshi, and the Ito were exiled. However, in 581 DR, the Nambu sided with the losing side in the Zakura Insurrection and the Ito regained everything.
Its misfortunes started when, in 639 DR, the lordship of Ito went to Ito Saburo, a greedy man secretly manipulated by a demon spirit, a krakentua. In order to destroy his Nambu enemies, Saburo founded the Sun Temple in Maeshi in 644 DR, and agreed to sacrifice one of the Seven Swords to the krakentua in 646 DR.
However, in 647 DR, despite the extinction of the Nambu clan, the sohei of the Sun Temple burned the castle to the ground on the Night of Burning Flowers and all the Ito family and their retainers were slain.