The Shadoweirs (Pronounce|SHA|doh|weerz|refs= They took their name from the greatest trees in the forests of Faerûn—the shadowtops and weirwoods—and their symbol was a great shadowtop overlaid with two crossed swords.
A small-sized order, its members were entirely half-elves who trained as clerics, rangers, and druids, and as the unique Mielikkian specialty priests known as druid/rangers. They acted as a kind of woodland knighthood.
Very secretive in their habits, the Shadoweirs were zealous activists of their faith who strove to halt the assault of civilization on their homelands. They fought for their beloved forests against any force that threatened them, even taking the offensive when necessary. They worked for the regrowth of forested areas, particularly old forests that had been thinned or cleared by civilization, no matter long before. They also adventured around Faerûn and preached and proselytized to attract others to the faith of the Forest Queen.
For their ceremonies, the knights donned cloaks that had been woven from spidersilk by dryads and dyed a deep forest green with natural dyes. The symbol of their order sometimes adorned their shields or was stitched into their clothes. In the field, they wore chain mail or studded leather armor, and in their ceremonies they wore chain mail. The greatest of the Shadoweirs wore elven chain mail of great age that had been gifted them by elf lords in recognition of their defense of the forests. Such armors not hinder any ranger skills, thanks to Mielikkis blessing.
Members were also known to wear Shadoweir amulets.
Their typical weapons included clubs, daggers, darts, longsword, longbows, scimitars, sickles, sling, spears, and staves.
Sharing the skills of rangers and druids, the Shadoweir druid/rangers were knowledgeable in animals and survival in woodlands, and knew some of the languages of woodland creatures, such as elves, brownies, dryads, korreds, pegasuses, pixies, satyrs, sprites, sylph, treants, and unicorns.
The Shadoweirs were naturally well supported by other members of the church of Mielikki, known as the Walkers of the Forest Way. Owing to the close alliance between their faiths, the Shadoweirs could also quietly receive supplies and sanctuary from the church of Eldath when they could not be aided by fellow Mielikkians.
The Shadoweirs were first established along the northern edges of the High Forest.
They since spread from there, but as of 1370 DR they remained few and far between outside the High Forest.