The Sisterhood of the Silver Fire, also known the Sorority of the Silver Fire, was an all-female order dedicated to Mystra, the Lady of Mystery, and opposing the Cult of the Dragon, Sammaster, and other fallen Chosen of Mystra.
The Sisterhood operated in secrecy and counted exclusively human and half-elven women among its members. The order was dedicated to the magic school of incantation and the membership consisted of incantatrixes, mages , and sorceresses. The organizations goal was opposing Sammasters madness and destruction of the Tome of the Dragon and the Cults dracoliches.
In theory, many members of the Sorority did not care for the Cult of the Dragons fate. However, the quest to undo Sammasters madness and magical corruption constantly led the orders sisters into direct conflict with the Cult. The death toll among the members was high, but the women knew risks and celebrated great successes over the centuries of the Sisterhoods existence. Perhaps the greatest success was the fact that the Keepers of the Secret Hoard still did not know of the Sisterhoods existence as of the late 14 century DR.
Sisters of the Silver Fire at the Shrine of the Silver Fire in Myth Drannor.
Being a clandestine order, Sisters of the Silver Fire rarely operated in groups of more than three. Each Sister was committed to searching for spells from copies of the Tome of the Dragon and destroying the Sacred Ones of the Cult. These goals were achieved through intense use of the Art and mundane means. These investigations often attracted the attention of the Cult of the Dragon and eventually brought members of the two factions to open conflict. Once an experienced Sister accumulated enough information, she enlisted the aid of adventurers to launch a precise attack on her target. Each such conflict could only end in two outcomes, either the Sister of the Silver Fire was killed by the Cult, or a Cults cell was destroyed by the Sister.
Ironically, the Sisterhood of the Silver Fire used many of the metamagic spells developed by the young Sammaster prior to him becoming a fallen Chosen.
The first incarnation of the Sisterhood of the Silver Fire was assembled in the city of Myth Drannor by Anorrweyn Evensong of House Durothil. The elven wizardess became inspired by Elminsters deeds in the ancient City of Songs that led to it opening gates to other peoples and blossoming into its Golden Age. She adopted the worship of Mystra and built several Shrines of the Silver Fire throughout the city. That incarnation of the arcane Sisterhood almost certainly perished in the destruction of Myth Drannor during the Weeping War (711–714 DR).
The Sororitys second founding date was the . The order was assembled by a half-elven incantatrix named Fetitia Ledora (a daughter of Alustriel Silverhand) and Yhelfanna the Masked (a Rashemi Hathran). Independently, both women had clashed with the results of Sammasters foul influence in the prior decade. Dracoliches sought to destroy both womens homes, Everlund and Rashemen, and both investigated the origins of the draconic undead, discovering the Keepers of the Secret Hoard. The taint on the Weave led Fetitia and Yhelfanna to the nation of Sembia and the Cults hidden temples.
Yhelfanna attacked the Sembian cell of the Cult first, and later, Fetitia joined the battle. The women quickly allied against a common enemy and combined their arcane powers to dissolve the cell and destroy its copy of the Tome of the Dragon. Both women remained allied and soon after grew into the Sorority of the Silver Fire.
In the , a group of the Sisters of the Silver Fire became aware of the Cult of the Dragons taking over the ruins of Myth Drannor. Most of the sisters fell to the dangers of the ruined city, leaving only Kellan and the Sisters guide Bronwyn alive. Eventually, they joined a group of adventurers who set out against the Cult and recovered a magical weapon that belonged to one of the deceased sisters—Flame Blade.
As of the , Sister of the Silver Fire Mavanna Blackspine had been searching for a copy of the Tome of the Dragon in the Vilhon Reach for more than four years. Rumors of the Cults operations in the city of Hlondeth attracted Mavannas attention, especially the creation of ur-histachii via magics found in Sammasters tome. The Sister of the Silver Fire was recruiting adventurers in Chondath bold enough to go against the Dragon Cult, which was aligned with the citys ruling House Extaminos. One thing remained unknown to Mavanna Blackspine—the rumors were nothing but a setup orchestrated by the Emerald Boa of the Vilhon Medusanna Mhairdaul, the ambitious High Priestess of the Cathedral of Emerald Scales, as a ploy was to hurt Dediana Extaminos, Medusannas political rival.
Another plot that involved the Sisterhood in 1370 DR unfolded in the Delimbyr Vale. Cynmelin DAthia believed that the Cult of the Dragon had begun transporting unspeakable riches into the lair of white dragon Ghaulantatra and were possibly seeking to place a dracolich into the white dragons lair. In reality, the Cult had become involved in an old war between a white dragon and a beholder, both turning undead by 1370 DR.
By the late 14 century DR, several ranking leaders of the Sorority of the Silver Fire were killed in the line of duty, leaving younger and less experienced women in charge. The Council of Seven in 1370 DR was helmed by Ioelena of the Argent Robes, Fieryat Ildacer, and Blethran Lhylbihi the Gray Witch.
*Dammasae, a senior member of the Sorority of the Silver Fire and a wielder of spellfire. She orchestrated the demise of at least two dracoliches and worked alongside adventurer Gorstag, the adoptive father of Shandril Shessair.