The Society of Shifting Sands was a secretive and relatively peaceful sorcerous society in Zakhara in 1367 DR that was devoted to discovering and uncovering ancient artifacts. They believed that some race lived in the Land of Fate long before humans, possibly planar travelers, and that their ancient magics still remained hidden within the ancient ruins and lost cities of Zakhara waiting to be found.
The leadership of the Shifting Sands was composed of a mysterious group called the "Triumvirate,"
The organization was largely loose, with a large number of members being independent wizards. They often were unwilling to take the time to record their monthly activities, at the most turning in detailed reports on the highlights of their year.
Anyone who applied to the organization could attempt to undergo its initiation, which was a three part process, though they rarely approached people directly for admission. Instead they would spread rumors that they were in the area and wait to see who sought them out.
The first step of the initiation process involved being shown five items. The initiate had to successfully identify, at least three times, whether said items were magical. If an item was magical, then the initiate had to identify what school of magic the item used.
The second step in the initiation process was contributing an item of real value to the organization. This item had to be something for which the initiate still had use and the value of the contribution was based on both the initiates power and wealth. For example, dagger of minor enchantment contributed by an impoverished novice wizard was seen as higher in value than one contributed by a powerful wizard.
Finally, the initiate had to enter an ancient city hidden by sand and return with a magical item &mdash the Shifting Sands were constantly on the lookout for new sites to use for this part of the initiation, though sometimes they were forced to reuse cities and in such cases they planted magical items within the city for the initiate to find. During this the initiate had to enter the city alone to prove themselves worthy.
Anyone who failed the initiation process was made to forget whatever had transpired. If this was unsuccessful, the Shifting Sands would take the initiate somewhere far away, ensuring they would never find their way back to the society or those associated with it. Those particularly belligerent about failing the test would be dealt with in more permanent matters, most often by being sold to dao as a concubine or slave.
The Shifting Sands encouraged the systematic searching of new ruins and covert recovery of magical artifacts.
Once a year the members of the Shifting Sands would all be drawn together by the Triumvirate and given assignments. Most would receive these without complaint and devote as much time as reasonable to complete their task. And they were free to use whatever resources were at their disposal.
The shifting Sands ran smoothly, efficiently, and didnt draw attention to itself. They used a variety of divination spells and informants in order to keep themselves out of trouble with the authorities. Members would always arise to the defense of one another whenever the need arose.
Many rulers in Zakhara were displeased by the Shifting Sands goals of rooting through ancient cities, as this could and had unleashed any number of ancient curses or other troubles. It was because of this that the society was so secretive. They also had some tension with the Pantheist League, as its members looked down on those they considered tomb robbers.
Small cities were often fond of them temporarily, whenever they set up an outpost and brought in a bunch of new coin as they searched the surrounding area for artifacts, but they inevitably became a disappointment whenever they finally packed up and left.
The Shifting Sands were one of the closest allies of the sorcerous society of astrologers known as the Constellation, whose shared interests in artifacts of the past sometimes overlapped. Whenever the Shifting Sands took on an exploration that the Constellation had reason to believe involved artifacts or texts of astrological significance, they would be given detailed navigational aid from them and the ability to predict success or failure from the mission before its undertaken. If such artifacts or text end up not being found, they would be compensated with some portion of the treasure found. In addition, the Shifting Sands generally gave texts or items relating to the stars or the magic of astrology to the Constellation.
Over the years leading up to 1367 DR, as the society became more secret their number of initiates per year declined, until only five new members per year were asked to initiate. This led to a schism in the society, with some believing they should put an end to their underground ways, making peace with local rulers and becoming powerful forces within local governments. This faction within the Shifting Sands hoped to gain more power through the artifacts they uncovered, so that when they finally came out of hiding they could withstand any assault that might befall them.
Around that time many of their active members were scouring the ruins of the ancient empires of Nog and Kadar. While a few scouts were making their way to the Pantheist League.
Around 1367 DR, there were around two hundred members in this organization. Around that time the organization was primarily made up of humans and elves, with a small percentage of other races.