The Society of Sensation, also known as the Sensates, was one of the fifteen factions of Sigil. They believed the only validation of existence was that which could be experienced by the senses. To attain a form of collective enlightenment, they sought to experience as much of the multiverse in this manner as they could.
The Society of Sensations was led by Factol Erin Montgomery,
Sensates used extraordinary magical devices to record all the sensations they experienced during their travels and maintained that collected information at their central base of operations in Sigil.
They learned how to finely hone their senses and could develop infravision outwards to a range of .
Sensates believed that only when a being has experienced every possible perception and experience could they become aware of the "universal Truth". All of these sensations were meant to be enjoyed and fully explored, rather than encountered in passing for the sole purpose of recording.
The Sensates primary plane of existence was the plane of Arborea.
The Society of Sensation maintained their headquarters within the Civic Festhall in Sigil.
Some of the most loyal and experienced Sensates were gifted magical amulets that granted them protective boons as they traveled across the various planes of existence.
300px|A member of the Society of Sensations.
The Society of Sensation remained philosophically aligned with the Sign of One and the two organizations often collaborated with one another. The Sensates remained neutral but polite towards the Fraternity of Order and the Free League, but were diametrically opposed to the beliefs of the Doomguard.
The Dustmen and often times the Mercykillers considered the Sensates among their enemies.
Any and all individuals were accepted into the Society of Sensation, regardless of race, occupation, gender, or moral and ethical alignment. As such it enjoyed a high membership rate. To join, an individual had to log at least five experiences within the Civic Festhall on Sigil.
Githyanki typically avoided joining the ranks of the Sensates.