The Starburst Swords was a unit of Purple Dragons that fought during Gondegals war in 1352 DR. Though they perished in battle, their fates remained inextricably tied to the Four from Cormyr, the Twilight Brigade, the Tower of Ruin, and the village of Darkenshield.
During the Lost Kings war in 1352 DR, the Starburst Swords were sent on a march through the Stonelands along the Stonebolt Trail, intending to pass through the village of Darkenshield. Passing through Darkenshield would mean coming into conflict with an inferior unit of Gondegals troops, the Twilight Brigade, but the Starbursts chose to change their route and avoid battle altogether, so that they could arrive at their destination quicker. Because of this laziness or cowardice, the Twilight Brigade went unopposed and sacked the village, slaughtering the entire population.
On their march, the Starbursts were set upon by trolls not far from the Tower of Ruin, being slaughtered themselves despite killing several with fire. A single survivor managed to escape and flee to the tower with two trolls in pursuit, but the four warriors within refused to risk themselves by letting him in or fighting the trolls.
The disloyalty and cowardice on display displeased Torm, and his curse bound the Starbursts to their gravesite until they could someday fulfil their oaths to protect. A year later, the Tower of Ruin was destroyed by a horde of monsters, but the monsters, the warriors, and the Tower itself remained frozen in time, accessible only by those who had first met with the restless spirits of the Starbusts. The blade Silveredge was also hidden inside the Tower, awaiting the day that someone who understood the meaning of duty showed themselves.
thumb|300px|The spirits of the Starbursts pointing the way to Darkenshield.Gondegal went on to be defeated, but the Twilight Brigade continued to survive as soldiers for hire, eventually coming into the service of Lord Vorik Aris. Finally in 1369 DR, the bard Mendryll Belarod came across an old rhyme from the area, and enticed a group of adventurers into pursuing an investigation. They found the fallen Starbursts, ended the curse on the Tower of Ruin and recovered Silveredge, uncovered the fate of Darkenshield, and discovered Lord Aris plots in the region.
As Lord Aris marched his forces to Darkenshield in preparation for attacking Cormyr, the adventurers performed the ritual that had been described in the old rhyme, assembling the Four from Cormyr and calling the Starbursts forth. The fallen Purple Dragons were summoned for their final battle, and began taking apart Lord Aris soldiers and undead fodder. They were joined by the spirits of Darkenshield, who vengefully attacked the Twilight Brigade now returning to the place of slaughter.
Having avenged their own deaths, the spirits of Darkenshield passed on to the City of Judgment. The Starbursts in turn were welcomed into the afterlife by the servants of Torm, having finally fulfilled their duties and earned some rest.
It was believed that the troll attack was prompted by Torm as a punishment for their dereliction of duty, and as a test for the warrior inhabitants of the Tower of Ruin. When the warriors chose to ignore the sole survivor and hide from the trolls, they too became doomed, and a year later Torm sent the horde of monsters to destroy the tower.