| memberstable   = 
| memtableheader = 
| alignment      = 
| races          = Half-elves and undead
| memrefs        = 
| allegiances    = Cult of the AbsoluteHarpers (Isobel only)
| enemies        = Absolute AdversariesHarpersEmerald Enclave
| relrefs        = 
| showmembers    = 
| orgname        = 
House Thorm was a once-powerful noble house in the Western Heartlands of west Faerûn. They were based at Moonrise Towers in Reithwin within the Shadow-cursed Lands.
thumb|right|300px|Moonrise Towers in the late 15 century as the headquarters of the Cult of the Absolute, having fallen to general disrepair since Ketherics conversion to Myrkul.
In the , a great battle fought between Dark Justiciars of Shar and druids and Selûnites hundreds were slain. Involved in the conflict was one Malus Thorm, who made a catalogue of the dead, with their names, means of death, and possessions. This was recorded in a document kept within Reithwins House of Healing.The document "Reithwin Necrology" in Baldurs Gate III, written by Malus Thorm, dates the battle to 986 DR. Since this is centuries earlier than other events for the Thorm family, only mentions Malus, and is against Selûnites rather than Harpers, it is presumed to be a separate conflict from that led by Ketheric later.
By the 14 century DR, Ketheric Thorm had risen to become the familys patriarch. He was married to Melodia Thorm and they had a daughter, Isobel Thorm. The family were firm followers of Selûne, with Ketheric converting to the Moonmaiden with his marriage to Melodia.Only Ketheric, Melodia, and Isobel are confirmed to have followed Selûne, but presumably others did too. At some point, Ketheric commissioned Morfred to build Moonrise Towers in Selûnes honor.
However, Melodia died, leaving a grief-stricken Ketheric to raise Isobel alone, and his condition worsened when Isobel died as well. Lost in his grief, Ketheric renounced the Moonmaiden and turned to Shar, the Lady of Loss. He eventually tricked his daughters lover, Aylin, into the Shadowfell to become a conduit to fuel Ketherics immortality.
Ketheric Thorm then led an almost-successful campaign to wipe out Selûnite sympathies or holdouts. In a winter around , the Dark Justiciars under Ketheric fought against the Harpers and the Emerald Enclave and claimed the victory. The Harpers unsuccessfully petitioned for surrender, leading Ketheric to wipe out his enemies while the druids of the Emerald Enclave retreated. Further, a secret deal was struck between Raphael and Morfred, still a Selûnite-in-secret, to wipe out Ketherics Dark Justiciars. Yurgir and his merregons, employed by Raphael, proceeded to decimate the Dark Justiciars, including Ketheric himself. Before his death, however, Ketheric laid a shadow curse upon the land that persisted long after his death.
Over a century later, Ketheric was brought back from the dead by the god Myrkul to be his general, tasking him with forming an alliance with the other Chosen of the Dead Three and bringing death to the world, offering the resurrection of Isobel as payment. Ketheric accepted, working with the necromancer Balthazar to give Isobel new life. After returning to life, Isobel was frightened by the sight of her "changed" father, fled to the Last Light Inn, and uncovered her fathers workings with Shar, Myrkul, and the shadow curse. Unwilling to let his daughter put herself in danger, Ketheric planned to retrieve her, but became preoccupied with establishing Moonrise Towers as the new base of operations for the Cult of the Absolute, as instructed by Myrkul. In the , Isobel medt with Jaheira and her Harpers, who were also seeking answers to the sudden emergence of Absolutists.
Already extinct by that time, House Thorm lost Ketheric to a group of adventurers, who had also defeated Malus, Thisobald, and Gerringothe Thorm prior to engaging Myrkuls chosen, leaving Isobel as potentially the last Thorm.
* Ketheric Thorm, the patriarch of the family.
* Isobel Thorm, Ketherics daughter. A cleric of Selûne.
* Melodia Thorm, Ketherics deceased wife.
* Thisobald Thorm, a man who worked at the Reithwin brewery and possibly Ketherics son.Thisobalds relationship to Ketheric is unclear. When speaking to him, Thisobald introduces himself as "Son of Thorm" and refers to Ketheric as "father", though neither Ketheric nor Isobel mention a son or brother, respectively. Considering that Ketheric and Balthazar resurrected Isobel, it is possible that Thisobald is another resurrected relative of Ketherics and refers to him as "father" not in a familial sense, but as a religious leader or perhaps even "creator". "Son of Thorm" could be him referring to a different Thorm other than Ketheric, or the family as a whole.
* Malus Thorm, Ketherics uncle and a surgeon at the House of Healing.In Tissue and Organ Register found within the House of Healing, Malus designates himself as Ketherics uncle.
* Gerringothe Thorm, a woman who worked at the Reithwin tollhouse.
* Eldebuck Thorm Fendarl, self-styled High Knight-Emperor of Fendarls GateWhile the name "Thorm" is common in Realms sources, it is most often a given name, not a family name. It is unknown if Eldebuck Thorm Fendarl carries his middle name as a given name or family name, but as equally eccentric nobility living just upriver of the Thorms, he is included here as a possible relation.