The Unseelie Court, also called the Gloaming Court, was an organization of evil fey creatures surrounding the Queen of Air and Darkness. The courts influence was felt far and wide across the Feywild.
Members of the Unseelie Court often engaged in Wild Hunts, riding atop nightmares and aided by yeth hounds. 
They engaged in esoteric magic and rituals, that were corruptive in nature.
It was said that they dined upon creatures from the Prime Material plane.
Members of the Unseelie Court wholly opposed the Seelie Court, and as could be expected, were detested by them in kind.
The relationship between the two ruling bodies was outlined in the eleven-book series, Tales From the Gloaming Court.
While the origins of the Unseelie Court remained a mystery, it along with Unseelie Court, attracted countless number of fey throughout its existence.
Members of the Unseelie Court were responsible for catching and raising the wild displacer beasts of the Feywild and breeding them to become terrible hunters. After some time, the monstrous beasts escaped captivity and went back to the wilds.
At some point, members of the Court attempted to seize the elven city Iliyanbruen, but were repeatedly thwarted by the hero Celadaine.
The Unseelie Court accepted within its ranks any creature with any trace amount of fey ancestry. As such, many creatures that could be considered monstrous, malformed, and even monstrous were openly welcomed within the Unseelie Court. Non-fey were rarely granted admittance within.
Some fey eladrin believed they could reincarnate as members of the Unseelie Court, provided they led an exceptional series lives and reincarnations.
One of the more notable groups within the Unseelie Court was the Dark Hunt, also known as the Wild Hunt after the phenomenon in which they participated. This group was a loose organization of the most skillful hunters among the Unseelie. The Queen sent them on all manner of missions to fetch various things or creatures for her entertainment, and they were expected to obey her commands without question.  
Although mainly composed of fey, extremely skilled non-fey were sometimes permitted to join the Dark Hunt, such as its last known leader, an elf called Ice.
* Nintra Siotta, an archfey that was exiled by the Queen of Air and Darkness.