The Tourmaline Depths were a subterranean expanse occupied by the ruins of an unknown origin beneath Baldurs Gate leading to the Underdark.
The rapier Pelorsun Blade which had "sliced Kas the Bloody-Handeds throat" and its last possessor were buried here and remained intact until 1492 DR.
Cells in Cazadors Dungeon.
The upper levels of the Tourmaline Depths were used as Cazador Szarrs prison where he held vampire spawn and slaves.
The Grand Chamber was used for rituals.
Amanita Szarr retold the known facts she had read in the writings of master vampire Donnella the Architect. According to Amanitas book, The Tourmaline Depths, during the period between 1138 and 1204, Donella reopened the sprawling blue-green halls beneath Baldurs Gate, placing them under the Szarr familys control. Donella suggested that dwarven exiles from the city of Bhaerynden were the original builders of the Tourmaline Depths, which seemed to serve as an outpost or a mining facility rather than a city. Still, by 1492 DR, it remained a mystery what resources the dwarves were extracting. It was also puzzling how these long-abandoned depths had stayed hidden beneath a major city like Baldurs Gate for so long.
Vellioth the Martinets skull.
After killing vampire lord Vellioth the Martinet, Cazador Szarr succeeded him as master vampire of Baldurs Gate in . Cazador made one of the upper rooms his personal bedroom and placed Vellioths skull on a pillow on a pedestal there.
Vampire lord Cazador Szarr at the Tourmaline Depths.
In , Mordoc SeLanmere, the Pale Knight, used the Onyx Heart to transform the citizens of Baldurs Gate into zombies under his control, while his vampires transformed other citizens into vampires. The city was temporarily renamed to Mordocs Gate. By 1492 DR nothing was known of the relations between Mordoc and Cazador Szarr during the conquest of Baldurs Gate, but it was possible that Cazador assisted Mordoc, as he had a bust of Mordoc SeLanmere in Szarr Palace. the Tourmaline Depths could have been somehow used by Mordoc.
In , Cazador Szarr performed the Black Mass Ritual, but was stopped by the Absolute Adversaries.