Abyssal giants were a violent and thankfully rare species of giant that lived in the Abyss.
Abyssal giants were, like all giants, humanoid in form. They were  tall on average, but relatively slender of build for giants. They had coal-black skin and equally black, shaggy hair that grew in a crest like a boars. They decorated their skin with white tattoos and scars, the latter of which faded to grey over time. These decorations were more extensive on older Abyssal giants, sometimes to the point of their skin appearing gray overall instead of black.
These giants typically wore armor that they pieced together from hide and demonic armor, and they wore necklaces made of claws and bones, favoring skulls.
Abyssal giants were hateful, extremely violent, and eager to prove their superiority over everything smaller than themselves in combat. They were also smug and arrogant it was possible for them to be flattered into foolishness but they were also too quick to perceive insult during a conversation, at which point they reacted violently. They were invariably evil most were chaotic though some were recorded to be neutral or lawful.
Just like most other giants, Abyssal giants were skilled rock throwers. When Abyssal giants threw rocks, they exploded upon impact, damaging multiple foes. Abyssal giants also possessed an innate power to reshape the terrain in the Abyss, creating pits, trenches, and other obstacles and fortifications. As creatures of evil, Abyssal giants could channel latent unholy energies through their blades, inflicting challenging-to-heal injuries that were especially effective against lawful creatures. Abyssal giant sorcerers and clerics were able to create magical tattoos that made them immune to slashing weapons.
Abyssal giants showed bravery and confidence in combat, being surprisingly quick for their size. Some tanarri were known to take advantage of this drive to show their superiority to others. Abyssal giants preferred to start fights by throwing exploding rocks.
Abyssal giants lived as hunter-nomads in the Abyss, though they sometimes ventured into the neighboring planes of Pandemonium, the Gray Wastes, and even Carceri. They worked as mercenaries for both tanarri demons and yugoloths. Adult males and females worked, fought, and generally lived together.
As a species they predominantly worshiped the demon lord Kostchtchie.
The origin of Abyssal giants was unknown. Some sages theorized that they originated on the Material Plane but their homeland had been drawn into the Abyss due to their extreme violence and hatefulness. Others theorized that they resulted from a bargain made with a demon lord such as Grazzt.