An adherer was a strange sort of semi-intelligent humanoid monster that bore a striking resemblance to mummies
On average these creatures stood  tall. Their skin had numerous folds and an off-white coloration, giving them a resemblance to the many filthy bandages of a mummy. An adherers most distinguishing feature from mummies was the sour, mucilaginous odor that exuded from a resinous solvent that was constantly excreted from its skins pores and covered its entire body.
These creatures were quite territorial, attacking anything that came close to their dens.
The solvent that adherers secreted from their skin pores was flammable and had an incredibly adhesive property, causing any material except stone to adhere to the creatures body. Only incredibly strong creatures could pull themselves free, but fire and boiling liquid could also weaken this adhesive bond. Adherers could also voluntarily release a counter-solvent that released anything stuck to their body. Within 12 hours after death, the resin that covered an adherers body lost its potency.
In addition to their solvent, adherers seemed to possess a form of telepathic communication with spiders. And they were unaffected by 1 level spells, with the exception of magic missile.
thumb|Terrifying adherer visage.
Adherers were ambush predators, preferring to lie in wait for their prey. To this end, they often covered themselves with dirt, leaves, twigs, and webs in order to better blend in with their forest environment. Sometimes even artfully
arranging larger bits of debris in order to better conceal themselves. If spotted before they had the chance to spring a surprise attack, an adherer would often flee.
Once an adherer engaged an opponent in combat they focused on grappling with their adhesive resin, all while punching, kicking, and if possible suffocating their victim. If other creatures attempted to attack them during this engagement, the adherer would attempt to position their victim as a living shield between them and the interloping attacker.
Over the years many attempted to no avail to derive adhesives, potions, or other forms of items from an adherers resin, due in part to the fast deterioration of its potency. No mundane, nor magical, means of slowing or outright preventing this deterioration.
Adherers were typically found living in isolation or in leaderless packs. They had a tendency to accumulate treasures, which they typically hid within piles of rotting vegetation in or near their lair.
It was unknown how these creatures reproduced, but it was known that they did not reproduce like mammals or lizards.
Adherers were a carnivorous species, with a wide-ranging taste in prey.
These creatures were typically found in temperate forests, living within shallow caves that were generally clean.
Spiders were the one creature that adherers never preyed upon. They often shared their lairs with one or more large spiders and often worked with them in trapping prey.
Some sages speculated that adherers reproduced asexually by means of fragmentation, splitting themselves into two adherers whenever the prey in an area was plentiful enough.