Air elemental myrmidons, otherwise known as air myrmidons or air archons, were a variety of elemental myrmidon, beings created by conjuring and bonding elementals &mdash in this case of elemental air &mdash into ritually created armor. They acted as servile weapons of war.
Air myrmidons were beings composed entirely of elemental air, with bodies that were roughly human in size and shape.
Like all elemental myrmidons, they wore thick armor, typically of a plate variety. Their armor was all that would remain of them when killed.
Air myrmidons were immune to the effects of diseases and poisons, as they were composed wholly of elemental essence. 
They had some resistance to lightning-based spells or abilities, as well as ones that were sonic-based. They also had innate abilities allowing them to temporarily imbue their weapons with electrical energy and speed around the battlefield.
Zephyrhaunts could transform themselves into raging cyclones, flinging away the enemies they moved through, while tempestblades could encase themselves in an aura of screaming winds that turned aside all weaponry lunged at them.
The standard variety of air myrmidon, zephyrhaunts, typically fought with spiked chains or a flail with spikes on its chain. While those known as tempestblades typically fought with longswords. Sometimes these were imbued with electrical energy, but regardless of what weapon an air myrmidon used, it was considered magical.
They typically used hit-and-run tactics. Assaulting their enemies with a barrage of strikes before harrying away to attack another target, as well as maneuvering their adversaries into flanked positions.
position.
During the Elemental Evil crisis, air myrmidons and their variants were utilized by members of one of the four elemental cults responsible for the crisis, the Cult of the Howling Hatred.
Zephyrhaunts The term used for the basic variety of air myrmidon. They were often employed for work as assassins.
Tempestblades One of the more powerful varieties of air myrmidons. They often served as vanguards in battles.
thumb|An air myrmidon from Baldurs Gate III.
Like any elemental myrmidons, when left to their own devices these beings would form societies that had the same structure, one that was roughly militaristic. They were rigidly disciplined and had hierarchies based on rank, with rank determining every aspect of life in their stronghold. These ranks did not have proper titles, as air myrmidons simply knew where they and others ranked. They did not challenge authority or compete against one another for rank, each being satisfied with their station and feeling they best serve in that position.
Outside of combat, air myrmidons spent much of their time trying to hone their knowledge of strategy and tactics, engaging in tactical exercises, or sparring. Constantly training for the next conflict, which satisfied their innate desire to make war. 
Some said that constructing an elemental archon required a special foundry, with a special forge built in a significant concentration of elemental energy, and a summoning crucible that served as the transformation space. These forges rarely appeared like a common forge, being unrecognizable contraptions of arcane and elemental magic.
A working foundry could produce them as often as the ritual could be performed and for as long as the foundrys resources were maintained. The forges power determine what kind of myrmidon was created. A forge with ebbing power could only generate the most basic of air myrmidons, while those at high flow could produce more powerful varieties, such as tempestblades.
Many were known to serve Yan-C-Bin, the evil archomental of elemental air. Beyond this, they often found themselves in the service storm titans.