| length       = 
| wingspan     = 
| weight       = 
| skincolor    = 
| haircolor    = Blond, grey, red-brown
| hairstyles   = 
| feathers     = 
| eyecolor     = Green
| build        = 
| distinctions = 
| appearrefs   = 
| first        = 
| based        = 
| histrefs     = 
Alaghi were the peaceful distant cousins of yetis.
Alaghi were large, fur-covered humanoids. They had large chests and shoulders, with strong arms that reached to their knees. Both their hands and feet were large, with fingers and toes ending in claws.
Alaghi were incredibly stealthy creatures. This was due to their skill in moving in almost complete silence and in blending into their surroundings. Some elderly alaghi had the ability to cast some clerical spells.
Despite their monstrous appearance, alaghi were in fact demure and harmonious creatures.
When forced into combat, alaghi were adept fighters. Alaghi hunters were trained to use stone knives, the handaxe and javelins. Without weapons, an alaghi was still a threat, due to their strength and massive muscular fists.
Most alaghi lived in semi-nomadic tribes. They had respect for nature and were capable of living in a way that minimized any damage to nature. Their nomadic lifestyle followed the seasonal migration patterns of the animals they hunted, as well as the growing season of wild plants they used. The alaghi language comprised hisses, hoots, and grunting.
Rarely, a tribe of alaghi decided to permanently settle in a bountiful area. They build simple huts or lived within large caves. The tribe was often led by an elder alaghi. These sedentary alaghi eventually became quite different from their nomadic counterparts. They grew more aggressive and greedy, lacking any respect for nature and even attacking and eating other sentient beings. Sedentary alaghi were able to speak common.
Most nomadic and sedentary alaghi were superstitious and feared anything that appeared unatural, such as spells, undead creatures and metal armor.
Even rarer, an alaghi became a hermit. This happened usually when the individual was middle-aged. They were more good aligned and intelligent then their fellow alaghi. As hermits, they lived a life of contemplative solitude, becoming vegetarians and philosophers. Hermit alaghi lived harmoniously with nature and gained all the powers of a high-level druid, and were capable of communicating with animals. Hermit alaghi were likely the best chess players one could find on Toril.
Alaghi lived in forests and mountains. Alaghi tribes were frequently encountered along the Sword Coast, as far north as the Neverwinter Wood and as far south as the Forest of Tethir., in Cormanthor between Mistledale and Shadowdale, in the Forest of Lethyr, the Dragonjaw Mountains, the Thesk Mountains, and the Yuirwood.
Hermit alaghi could be encountered wandering around the North, with hermits known to reside in the Lurkwood, the Lost Peaks, the Mere of Dead Men, and the South Wood.
Beyond the Prime Material plane, alaghi could be found in the Beastlands.
* Kurdin a hermit alaghi who was also an incredibly powerful druid.