Allips were the incorporeal remnants of people driven to insanity and suicide.
Allips were spectral variations of the persons they once were, with nightmarish, warped features befitting of the madness that possessed them. Their lower portions trailed away into a dark, faint fog as they floated.
An allips only desire was revenge on those who supposedly pushed it over the edge to suicide. It swung wildly at any creature it detected, unaware that its incorporeal form could cause no physical harm. An allip babbled constantly in incoherent whines.
An allip had the ability to drain sanity from any creature it touched, growing more powerful in the process. It was as insane in death as in life anyone detecting an allips thoughts by magic or telepathy was driven to the same madness.
Creatures who heard incessant allip babbling could fall victim to their hypnosis. An allip could hypnotize any sane creature within a  radius.
Like many other undead, allips possessed resistance to damage caused through acid, fire, lightning, thunder, as well as non-magical weapons. They were completely unaffected by damage done via cold, necrotic energies, and poisons. They could never be charmed, exhausted, frightened, paralyzed, petrified, nor grappled or physically restrained in any way.
thumb|A hero standing against an allip in the ruins of the 480x480px
When an allip entered combat, it began by trying to hypnotize its foes with mesmerizing and maddening babbling, trying to neutralize as many opponents as possible. Once the creature knew who of its opponents remained unaffected, an allip went after them first, attempting to touch them and consume their sanity. An allip almost never retreated nor escaped from danger.
Some sages believed that allips were created when a creature uncovered some secret of a powerful being, such as a demon lord, and received a deathly curse as the result that destroyed the victims body, leaving only a spectral allip behind, with their psyche shattered, and driven insane by the agony. The same sages speculated that the rambling and whispers of allips bore shards of the forbidden knowledge that doomed them and sought to spread it among the living, causing their madness. Some surviving victims were said to develop a compulsion to seek out the secret that created the allip that attacked them.
All allips experienced an inescapable craving for sanity and consumed it from the minds of their victims, leaving them alive but catatonic. Despite consuming sanity, allips did not require food or other forms of sustenance to survive.
Generally solitary beings,
Allips were commonly encountered in the urban areas of the Underdark, the hills of the Channath Vale in south Faerûn, as well as plains in the Beastlands, Halruaa, and Dambrath.
Beyond the Prime Material plane, allips could occasionally be found in the land of Barovia in the Domains of Dread.
The summon undead IV and summon undead V spells could summon allips under the casters control, and nightshades could summon an allip to their aid in battle. While creatures that killed themselves within  of a whisper demons always rose as allips, slaves to the said whisper demon.
The Naerindyl Estate of the Naerindyl family that once stood north of Moranay in Impiltur, was the site of a grim mass-grave of the estates inhabitants, nobles and servants alike, all torched before the late 14 century DR. The mass grave spawned a terrifying gargantuan horde of allips every night that indiscriminately slaughtered all living things nearby.
*Yeldoon, an undead being whose spirit was an allip and whose dead body was a wight.