Amber dragons were a lesser species of gem or neutral dragon that lived only in dense forested areas.
Ambers were smaller and weaker compared to other species of gem dragon. They had thick, bark-like skin that ranged from shades of dull gray to dark brown. Their eyes were richly colored like their namesake, amber, and they had a horned beak-like prow that was  in length. Their teeth were cartilaginous and not well-formed for biting offensively. In addition, their feet ended in sharp scythe-like claws.
Amber dragons were exceptionally intelligent creatures. Compared to all other neutral-aligned dragons, they were perhaps some of the most aloof and solitary. Their mood also tended to reflect the capricious nature of the elements, as they were closely attuned to their natural surroundings. They also held similar philosophies to those of druids.
Unlike many species of dragon, these creatures held disdain towards gold and other metallic treasures. They were not known to hoard material objects.
The unique dragon breath of these creatures was a spray of sticky, scalding sap. They were capable of exhaling this breath at a distance of up to , in a conical fashion that was  wide at its terminus. This sap rapidly hardened around those soaked in it, trapping them in an immobilizing resin shell.
Amber dragons possessed a form of telepathy that allowed them to speak with druids and creatures that dwelled within forests, such as brownies, elves, gnomes, and sprites.
They also possessed a great innate spellcasting ability, being capable of casting a variety of spells that were common of druids. They could magnetize other creatures with metal armor or weapons, hindering their combat capabilities.
Instead of fighting with their jaws like other dragons, an amber would thrust at opponents with their prow and slash with their scythe-like claws. However, due to their relative weakness they tried to avoid combat..
Amber dragons were a herbivorous species, who feasted upon the thick sap of coniferous trees. They extracted this sap by plunging their horned prows beneath the bark of these trees. This left a distinctive triangular mark that druids and rangers familiar with amber dragons could use to detect their presence.
Unlike many species of dragons, these creatures did not make permanent lairs, instead roving through their large forested habitats. this could encompass an area as large as .
Amber dragons were typically found in dense, coniferous forests.
In addition to Draconic, amber dragons were capable of speaking many variations of Druidic.
Despite sharing many of their philosophies and magical abilities, amber dragons merely tolerated the presence of druids. An alliance between them was not a common occurrence.
Ambers dragons were a favored monster of the deities Rillifane Rallathil, Baervan Wildwanderer, and Sheela Peryroyl.