Angels of exploration were a kind of astral angelThe angel of exploration present in City of Torment has a multitude of traits that make it reminiscent of astral angels a burning sword, vanishing below the waist, porcelain skin, and clear non-good traits, all of them identical to the description of other astral angels. Furthermore, their naming scheme, calling them angels of exploration, matches the naming scheme of all the other astral angels. Thus, this article proceeds under the assumption that the angel of exploration is intended to be read as a type of astral angel and that the general traits of those creatures apply. that thrived in tasks requiring exploration.It is unknown whether Mapathiouss appearance, personality, and abilities are representative of all angels of exploration. This article is written under the assumption they are.
Angels of exploration had porcelain-white skin, glowing, icy eyes, and wings made of magma. They carried flaming swords and wore golden armor their bodies trailed off into misty ether below the waist.
At least one angel of exploration was extremely loath to transport other beings across planar boundaries, to the point it considered dropping them in Avernus and going on its merry way it only obeyed in the first place because of a pre-existing pact. However, its curiosity won out once it was told it was heading for a previously unknown location, and it accepted the task with certain enthusiasm.
Angels of exploration could use their swords to rend gashes in the Planes, which they used to transport objects across them. When involved in tasks of transportation, their strength was far beyond what their bodies could ordinarily manage.
They could fly, and their wings played some role in their movement.
They used their swords to fight.
Angels of exploration were known to serve other angels as advance scouts.
The archfey Neifion bound Mapathious, an angel of exploration, in  to lower both him and the warlock Japheth Donard in a trek bell down to Xxiphu. Once in Xxiphu, the angel was attacked by the kraken Gethshemeth, who slew it.