The ankheg (|audio=ankheg.ogg ) was an insectoid creature that burrowed underground and hunted from below.
Ankhegs were covered in a strong chitin armor.
Ankhegs could see in pitch darkness, as well as detect vibrations in the earth, from up to  away. The "attack" acid was part of the digestive system for the creature, so it couldnt digest food for six hours after a discharge.
left|An ankheg bursting out of the ground to attack.
The ankheg was an ambush predator that waited around 5–10 feet underground for prey to wander into position. The attack was quick, as the prey was crushed and ground in its mandibles and assaulted with acidic digestive enzymes. If a foe proved too difficult, the ankheg could also squirt acid to take it down. If several ankhegs were attacking a group, the ankhegs would try to attack different targets. If prey was attacked by more then one ankheg, the ankhegs would just play tug-of-war with the unfortunate prey.
Lava ankheg A sub-species of ankheg that were adapted to burrowing through volcanic soil.
A typical area could have a lone ankheg, a pair, or a cluster of ankhegs.
Gaining nutrients from the ground, the ankheg also had to hunt fresh meat to sustain itself. It could also eat decaying meat.
The four stages of the ankheg life cycle.
Ankhegs mated in autumn, when the fertilized female would kill the male to lay 6–12 eggs inside him. Usually, a high number of eggs survived and hatched within two to ten days and started to feed.
An ankheg broodling did not hunt and remained hidden, while its mother brought it sustenance. After a year, the young were able to fend for themselves.
Around the second year, the young ankheg shed its chitin before winter. It takes a little less than ten days to complete the process and grow a new shell. During this time, the youngling was slower and more vulnerable. To defend itself, it secreted a fluid that smelled like rotten fruit. This defense could backfire, as some would seek out the smell.
Living in warm climates, the ankheg dwelt in partially collapsed burrows usually around  underground. The ankheg hunted in forests or grasslands where prey would wander into its traps. If an area became too barren, the ankheg moved on to other, more lucrative areas. Ankheg tunnels were sometimes filled with the remains of victims, eggs, or chitin. Their tunnels would sometimes be around  long and  feet high. Hollow tunnel ends were used for lair purposes, such as sleeping or hibernation.
They were known to compete with giant ants for territory. If they were killed or driven away from their nest, the broodlings left behind would be made to serve the giant ant colony.
An ankheg shedding its chitin.
Ankhegs could prove to be useful for a farmer. Provided it stayed alive, its tunnels could bring in water and its excrement contained enriching minerals.
An ankheg shell harvested from a slain ankheg weighed roughly . Armorers like Taerom Fuiruim in Beregost could forge a type of chitin armor from the shells, referred to as Ankheg plate mail. It took three days to make. The armor was very nearly as effective as full plate mail, but weighed considerably less and could be worn by warriors who usually couldnt wear such heavy armor. Taerom claimed to sell ankheg armor to rich nobles for 20,000 gold pieces. However, if one provided the shell, he would charge just 4000 gold pieces for a set of completed armor.
A stuffed ankheg was kept in the Obstacle Course layer of Undermountain.