| length       = 
| wingspan     = 
| weight       = 
| skincolor    = Silvery sheen
| haircolor    = 
| hairstyles   = 
| feathers     = 
| eyecolor     = 
| build        = Slender
| distinctions = 
| appearrefs   = 
| first        = Monstrous Compendium Planescape Appendix II
| based        = 
| histrefs     = 
Argenachs were a subspecies of rilmani.
Argenachs were tall, slender humanoids with a silvery sheen to their skin. Like all rilmani, their eyes emitted a pearly light. On their home plane they typically dressed in flowing robes of a white hue.
Argenachs were incredibly intelligent and resourceful.
Out of all the rilmani, they were the most interested in the affairs of the countless worlds on the Prime Material plane. They believing that the war between opposing forces of good and evil, law and chaos, would be fought and won on the Prime Material.
Despite their appearance, argenachs were very strong and had dense hides that could only be harmed by weapons with a +3 or greater enchantment.
Argenachs possessed a number of innate spell-like abilities, which they could use one at a time. These included advanced illusion, detect invisibility, detect magic, ESP, fly, hallucinatory terrain, invisibility, mass charm, mirror image, slow, solid fog, suggestion, and wall of fire. Once per week they could cast geas, three times per day they could cast cone of cold, and once per day they could cast legend lore and prismatic spray.
Their more unique spell-like abilities included lay on hands once per day, replicating the effects of heal, opening a gate once per day to bring either four ferrumachs or another argenach to their aid, and shooting two rays of silvery light from their hands, out to a range of , that always struck as an energy form that their target was weak to.
They could also cast a number of spells that were known to all rilmani &mdash darkness, dismissal, continual light, hold monster, and teleport without error. They always had the spell know alignment active.
Like all rilmani, they could freely travel to the Astral plane or any of the Outer Planes, but their access to the Prime Material plane was restricted. They were only capable of traveling there if a creature of law or chaos of equal power was already present.
Argenachs avoided physical combat when possible, using their spell-like powers of charm, illusion, and suggestion to avoid such confrontations. When forced to engage someone in close quarters, they typically fought with long-handled axes and wide-bladed broadswords with +3 enchantments.
In the hierarchy of rilmani society the argenachs were above all but the aurumachs, who they answered directly to, and were the most reclusive. They were usually only given broad guidelines, rather than specific orders, such as "Theres trouble on Toril. Deal with it."
They acted as advisers and agitators, entrusted with the most delicate and subtle aspect of the rilmanis grander purpose &mdash the careful adjustment of the Balance, especially in places where it couldnt fix itself, making sure that no one side gained the upper hand for long.
When getting involved in matters of balance the argenachs took a subtle approach and neutral role. They would conceal their true identity, then give advice and knowledge to whatever side was threatened.
Like all rilmani, the home of argenachs was near the Spire in the Outlands. However, they spent a lot of their time on the Prime Material plane.
In the mid-14 century DR, an argenach was living in Westgate, acting as part of the staff of the Blais House inn.
* Jemorille, an argenach who whispered something to Yamun Khahan that compelled him to lead the Grand Army of the Tuigan against the kingdoms of Faerûn.