in diameter
Ascomoids () were a type of subterranean fungus creature that could be dangerous to adventurers.
Ascomoids had a spherical shape and thick, leathery skin dotted with numerous indentations. They were capable of growing up to  in diameter, though generally they were smaller than that.
Ascomoids generally took only a few weeks to grow from spores if a proper amount of water, warmth, and flesh was available. After which, they would break off from their stem and begin to roll around their environment.
The numerous small holes that dotted the landscape of an ascomoids body primarily acted as form of sensory organ. However, when an ascomoid got large enough  it was capable of emitting from these orifices a  long stream of fungal spores that was  in diameter. These spores would poison a victims internal systems, having an acidic quality. Though some could manage to withstand the infection of these spores, they were still liable to experience a degree of blindness and choking.
Due to their thick, leathery exterior an ascomoid could not be harmed by means of blunt weaponry.
Being a fungus, ascomoids were largely mindless creatures. However, if frequently fed either fresh or rotten meat by a creature they would learn to detect the feeder and regard them as a creature that they shouldnt attack.
Receiving a steady supply of food was also known to cause the normally nomadic fungus to remain within a certain area.
In the , the drow city of Velddrinnsshar fell in an incident that would come to be known as the Ascomoid Plague. Victims of this plague developed large blisters across their body that would rupture at the slightest touch, releasing a cloud of the fungal spores into the vicinity that would potentially infect more people.
Due to their mindless nature ascomoids were relatively easy to herd and control, thus some creatures were known to capture them and use them as sentinels or guard beasts. Hobgoblins and goblins in particular were known to engage in this activity, luring ascomoids to the edge of their territories and then relying upon them to attack intruders.
Some drow were known to harvest the spores of ascomoids and use them to poison their opponents.
Ascomoids were generally found in subterranean areas.
In the Abyss, they were known to be found in areas with maelstrom terrain. They could be found serving the Demon Queen of Fungi in Shedaklah, the Slime Pits, 222nd layer of the Abyss.
Beyond Toril, ascomoids could be found within the Underdark of the planet Krynn.
CategoryCreatures found on Krynn
Despite ascomoids generally congregating in groups no larger than two or four, stories circulated that claimed massive swarms of them had overrun the warrens of goblins or the outposts of dwarves.