| wingspan     = 
| weight       = 
| skincolor    = Mostly blueThe color of human flesh
| haircolor    = 
| hairstyles   = 
| feathers     = 
| eyecolor     = 
| build        = 
| distinctions = Human-like limbs
| appearrefs   = 
| first        = White Dwarf #12
| based        = 
| histrefs     = 
Assassin bugs were a species of fly-like, parasitic insects.
These insects resembled a giant bluebottle fly, but with stunted humanoid-like arms and legs. Their bodies were of the same hue as the bluebottle, with females having lighter shades, but their limbs resembled human flesh. Their wings were semi-transparent and had faint silver hue.
Assassin bugs typically ignored and outright avoided constructs and undead. 
These insects had a keen sense of smell and possessed darkvision.
Once every two months assassin bugs engaged in a mating season, wherein they would search for a host to lay their eggs. This was typically a human, though they were also known to demihumans and humanoids as victims. Males would attack a desired host, biting them and imparting their saliva. They would then continue to attack until destroyed.
The saliva of male assassin bugs had limited paralyzing properties, affected only the attacked body part. This made it easier for females to implant their eggs. Following the Second Sundering, this effect became far more potent and instead paralyzed a victims entire body for a period of one minute. Females, sensing their mates saliva, would attempt lay their eggs and died shortly afterwards.
Assassin bug eggs were  in length, ovaloid, and had a deep blue shade. Each egg typically produced seven to twelve larvae, which would hatch within thirteen to twenty-four hours after being implanted. Once hatched they would spend two weeks within their hosts body, eating away at their internal organs, eventually burrowing out through the hole in which they were originally implanted. Once outside the larvae metamorphosed into a grown assassin bug.
Following the Second Sundering, the timescale of larvae hatching had become almost instantaneous upon being planted. After hatching they would then burrow their way through a victims body, making their way to its heart and devouring it. They would then remain within their hosts dead body for several days, eating away at it. 
Few creatures were able to survive infestation by an assassin bug without being quickly treated by magic or fire. Incredibly sturdy creatures, such as catoblepas and gorgons, have been known to survive and display deep pockmarks on their bodies where the juvenile insects had escaped. 
The eggs inside a victims could be removed by spells like limited wish and heal. Once hatched, the larvae could still be destroyed by similar spells, as well as cure critical wounds and cure serious wounds. Following the Second Sundering, only spells and magical effects that removed diseases were capable of eliminating them from a victims body. 
In frontier regions, whole settlements were known to have been wiped out by a plague of these creatures. Desperate rulers would order whole neighborhoods, or even entire villages, to be burned down in order to prevent their spread. Otherwise, guards would patrol infested areas with burning brands and flaming swords.
In the late 14 century DR, Ravens Bluff resident Skully sometimes sought out and purchased assassin bug eggs. He secretly offered these for sale at his shop, Skullys Bar and Bait, as highly priced fishing bait.
Some rumors claimed that they insects were created by an ancient sect of druids that worshiped either the deity Malar or Talos. Little information existed on this sect and those who do speak of them are uncertain as to what their intent was for creating the assassin bug. Some speculated they were created to break down monstrous corpses, while others felt they were created to cull growing humanoid populations.
Some believed that their humanoid-like limbs and limited language ability were signs that this ancient sect of druids has sacrificed themselves in order to create these insects.
Assassins bugs inhabited frontier and wilderness areas.
Outside of the Prime Material plane, assassin bugs inhabited the jungles of the goddess Kalis realm, the 500 layer of the Abyss.
While assassin bugs could speak no language, they could understand Druidic.
Bugbears, troglodytes, and trolls considered assassin bug eggs to be a delicacy. Trolls would lure them out by intentionally allowing their bodies to be infested, as their regenerative abilities made wounds quickly heal and allowed them to pull the intrusive maggots out. 
Hags would sometimes cultivate assassin bugs, using their maggots in a variety of recipes.
The venom from an assassin bug was one of the many options for the venom material component required to properly enchant a silver dragons tooth.