Astral Elves were a variety of elves native to the Astral Plane. They traced their roots to the Feywild like other elves, but were very different from their terrestrial brethren. The millennia they spent within the Astral Plane imbued them with a spark of divine energy, bestowed upon them by divine powers.
Because astral elves lived closer in proximity to their gods, they each had a notable starry gleam in their eyes.
Just as other living beings, astral elves did not age while within the Astral Plane. Their longevity―which often surpassed that of Torillian elves up to thousands of years―granted them unique outlooks on time and existence. This manifested in feelings of depression in some elves or apathy in others. Yet some kept away concerns over existential dread by exploring personal creativity, living introspective lives enriched by peaceful meditation, or set out to explore the far-off planes of the multiverse.
Like other beings, astral elves traveled away from the Deep Astral in order to procreate and raise their children to a certain age.
Astral elves utilized spelljammers such as star moths―crafted from unique botanic and crystalline substances―to travel across both the Astral Plane and the far-off reaches of wildspace. It was there that they collected starlight, which they used to power and repair their vessels.
Astral elves did not need to eat for sustenance, nor sleep for rest. Rather, they entered into a form of reverie referred to as an "astral trance".
They had especially acute senses, including darkvision that extended out to . One or more times each day, astral elves could teleport up to  away by magical means.
It was said that the leaders of the astral elves possessed the power to summon solar dragons to aid in their causes.
In deference to the gods of the Seldarine, astral elves wore armor that featured ornate headpieces and visored helms that obscured their personal identity. They preferred to be seen as entirely faceless when dealing with members of other species.
The astral elves gods imbued their weaponry with divine radiant energy that originated from starlight.
During some unknown era, groups of elves traveled away from their home in the Feywild to the Astral Plane, with the hope of becoming closer to their gods. They were said to be among the first creatures to take up permanent residence within the plane known to some as the Silver Void. Throughout their existence, astral elf civilizations have repeatedly defended themselves from horrific monstrosities and invasion forces, such as psurlons, illithids, and githyanki.
At some point, an entire fleet of astral elf vessels arrived at the Rock of Bral, warning the captains of the docked spelljammers against intervening upon their invasion of a single planet.
* Prince Xeleth, the would-be ruler of the Xaryxian Empire.