Banelar nagas (also simply called banelars
Their eyes had a green tint to them, and their scales were a greenish purple, but they had brown tails tipped with stingers. Around their mouths were weak yet agile tentacles which they used to wield wands, amulets, rings, rods, potions, and other small magic items.
They could breathe in either air or water.
Banelars were at once cruel, aggressive, arrogant, and majestic. They faced any threat head-on, haughtily confident in their ability to tackle it.
Their voices had a hissing aspect to them, and they spoke the Common, Orcish, and Draconic languages,
thumb|left|250px|A banelar wielding a magic wand with one of its tentacles.
Banelar nagas tails had venomous stingers on them, with the poison causing a targets skin to turn blue. In addition to this natural weapon, they favored fighting with spells, mainly from the Evil, Water, and Magic domains. They also used a variety of magical items to complement this, holding them with their tentacles.
Banelars also had access to a number of divine spells, and by the late 15 century DR, empowered by the god Bane, they had gained a number of verbal powers. Using just their mighty utterances, they were able to stun, rebuke, and even push back enemies with the power of their forceful words. Their preferred tactic was to daze more dangerous opponents while charging in to deal with weaker ones.
Banelar nagas followed Bane, with Cyric being a less-favored god with whose priests they worked following Banes apparent death.
Banelars were created to serve Bane, and historically they did so either directly through his church and the Zhentarim, or independently in his name. It was from this longstanding relationship with Bane and his followers that they received their name "banelar."
Following Banes death in the , many banelars defected to work with followers of Cyric. Within the Zhentarim, this meant they sided against the Baneson, Iyachtu Xvim, and the former Chosen of Bane, Fzoul Chembryl.
* Isti-Zar, a banelar who dwelled within the Shadowscale Warren