The bat-people, who were so named by the first humans to ever encounter them, were a race of bat-like humanoids that were native to the Domains of Dread.
These creatures had thin, light weight bodies that stood on average  tall. They had both clawed humanoid arms and wings capable of flight. Their heads were completely like that of a giant bat, though with an additional flap of skin that they could fold down to cover their huge ears when needed. These flaps were filled with a special fluid that helped to prevent the disorienting effects of sonic attacks.
Despite their bestial appearance these creatures had an average to high degree of intellect, capable of coordinating search patterns with each other inside their own caves.
Bat-people were virtually blind, but had exceptional hearing. They navigated the world by a combination of bat-like sonar and a unique, very acute, radar sense. Each bat-creature emitted its own radar "signature" that others of their kind could recognize, allowing them to distinguish between one another and freely communicate. However, they couldnt distinguish between individuals of other species, leading them to refer to other creatures as simply an "other."
Beyond their sensory abilities, bat-people notably had a spell-like ability similar to continual darkness that they could use once per day.
These creatures fought by using either their claws or belting out devastating sonic screeches. Any sonic screech was always preceded by a warning to other nearby bat-people, giving them the chance to close their ear-flaps for protection. They also utilized their power of continual darkness to alter areas of combat to their advantage, making it difficult for most opposition to see.
Bat-people made their home in subterranean caves, rarely ever venturing out as their sonar wouldnt work in the wide open spaces above-ground. They lived in oligarchical societies with a trinity of leaders, one of which was the high priest of their god. They worshiped some kind of "bat god", whom they would offer sacrifices to from those who stumbled upon them. Priests of other gods were considered to be particularly good sacrifices to this god.
Some of these creatures accumulated hoards of treasure, which they piled around their sacrificial altars.
These creatures were carnivorous, primarily subsisting upon giant insects.
The bat-people communicated solely in their own language, which to other creatures came across as a bunch of high-pitched squeals.
* One group of bat-people inhabited an unnamed cavernous range of hills that sporadically shifted between the Domains of Dread and the Vast region of north Faerûn. Storied encounters with this group went as far back as the 12 century DRThe module states that "The bat-people story is over 200 years old...", indicating that it had to have occurred in the 12 century DR at the earliest. and in the 14 century DR they were fought by a group of heroes from Ravens Bluff a day after the hills manifested  from that city.