Bears were a family of mammals, typically of a predatorial nature, that inhabited many of Torils continents.
Among the most commonly encountered bears were human-sized, with larger species existing.
The disposition of these creatures varied by species. Brown bears were often aggressive, cave bears even more so, while black bears usually displayed little aggression.
Bears possessed a powerful sense of smell and hearing. Physically, they were incredibly powerful creatures, possessing near superhuman strength as well as a formidable durability. With larger specimens being comparatively more powerful.
A bear, color unknown.
Some of the more commonly encountered bear species are listed below.
Black bear
A variety of bear that is not usually dangerous unless provoked.
Brown bear
Among the largest common bears, brown bears are ill-tempered and aggressive when compared with other bears.
Cave bear
Vicious predators adapted to living underground.
Chultan moonbear
Powerful species of bear from the Jungles of Chult.
Dire bear
Enormous bears with a powerful capacity for strength and who view human-sized creatures as simply another form of food.
Polar bear
Native to arctic regions, polar bears are slightly larger than brown bears and are also partially adapted for an aquatic lifestyle.
All species within this family of mammals were omnivores, though cave bears tended towards meat.
Bears could be most often found in forested regions or caverns.
In north Faerûn, a breed of bear known as the black-masked bear was commonplace throughout the forests of the Vast. It was also commonplace on the tables of local inns, as a well-roasted dish and as an ingredient in wildsage stew.
Beyond Faerûn they could be found in Evermeet, where they were non-hostile towards elves and occasionally hunted by gold elves. In the Hordelands, they could be found at the lowest levels of the Katakoro Plateau.
Bears were a favored animal of several deities, including Bahgtru, Eldath, Geb, Malar, Rillifane Rallathil, and Solonor Thelandira. The dwarven god Clangeddin both favored cave bears in particular, while slumbering Ulutiu preferred polar bears.
Auroras Whole Realms Catalogue sold bear hides for 5 gp a piece.