A behir (|audio=Behir.ogg  It had a long, snake-like body and could slither on the ground like a snake, but it also had six pairs of legs upon which it could walk or climb if it chose to do so. Each of a behirs twelve feet contained three clawed toes.
Behirs had thick, armored scales, much like a dragon. Their scales were colored in variations of dark blue and were lighter on the behirs undersides.
They had long narrow heads, and their bones were crystalline.
Newly hatched behirs were about  in length, while the typical adult behir was around  long and weighed about . Behirs reached adulthood at the age of ten and, like other reptilian creatures, would continue to grow throughout their lifetimes, shedding their scales periodically in the process. Because of this, behirs could sometimes reach gargantuan sizes.
Behirs were known to be expert climbers. They were surprisingly quick, and could outrun the typical human.
Behirs could breathe a magical burst of electricity from their mouths, much like a blue dragon. (They themselves were completely immune to damage from electricity.) There were some reports that they were immune to poisons as well.
If a behir grabbed ahold of an opponent or prey with its mouth, it had several options. It could wrap its body around the victim and constrict, it could tear at the victim with its many clawed limbs, or it could simply swallow the victim whole.
Halruuan behir Halruaan behirs were a miniature species native to Halruaa, where they were bred as pets or guardians.
A behir having a giggle.
Behirs were usually solitary creatures, but could be found in mated pairs They were most active during the day. During the winter months, they hibernated.
Mating took place in early spring. Females produced between one and four blue-green, leathery eggs, which were buried under dirt or sand. Others insisted that it only took three or four weeks. The young were driven from the den soon after hatching.
Behirs were a carnivorous species. Their main diet consisted of medium-sized animals, such as boars.
Behirs preferred to live in warm, hilly terrain.&mdashor hidden thickets. A behirs territory usually encompassed an area of 400 square miles (1036 square kilometers).
Despite their nature, behirs were popular subjects of breeding in Halruaa. The varieties of behir breeds was as diverse as the breeders imagination allowed. They varied in size and color, and were used as guard dogs, or small hand-held pets. Behir hatcheries consisted of long shallow pools of water. They were fed with fish and eels. Those behir not sold alive were butchered and used for material components and crafting materials.
Behirs were capable of speaking both Common
Behirs sometimes served the dark Chultan demigod Eshowdow, and were seen as good omens by his followers.
Behirs hated all dragons and would refuse to share any territory with them.
Behir horns could be used to make the ink necessary for scribing a magic scroll for a lightning bolt spell. Similarly, a scroll of neutralize poison often used ink from a behirs talons, and that of protection from poison used ink made from a behirs heart.
Behir scales were sometimes used to make armor, much like the hides of dragons. Their crystalline bones were used for scrimshaw. Bone-carved chimes, sculptures, and musical instruments were very common across Halruaan cities. Behir teeth were as beautiful and valuable as gemstones and had a wide variety of creative uses. One such use was a strange type of Haluaan music box that were invented at the Behirs Nest shop in Khaerbaal. Behir teeth formed plucking hooks that pulled on string made of behir guts and electrum, while behir ivory was used for other parts of these wondrous instruments.
In 1492 DR, a behir dwelt on the Troglodyte Warrens level of Undermountain.
* The lamia noble Transtra kept a behir as a companion, although she had to charm it to do so.
* Grimlight was a behir who lived in a gorge near the Cold Vale.
* Longjaws was a powerful behir who served the lich Alokkair.
* Vozhin was a behir who lived in the corpse of the primordial Petron, in the world of Abeir.
In the city of Memnon, an inn called the Brazen Behir had a lifelike statue of a behir that formed its main gate.