| vision       = Darkvision
| activecycle  = Nocturnal
| diet         = Carnivorous
| intelligence = 
| lifespan     = 
| location     = Thay
| language     = Common
| climate      = Any
| terrain      = Forest, plains
| genrefs      = 
| height       = 
| length       = 
| weight       = 
| haircolor    = Black
| eyecolor     = Burning red, black
| build        = Equine
| distinctions = 
| appearrefs   = 
| first        = 
Black unicorns were unicorns who had been corrupted with the blood of demons and other fiends. They were known to live in Thay.
Black unicorns had coal-black fur and silky manes. Their eyes could be glossy black or burning red. Their distinctive spiraled horns were long and chased with silver. Unlike normal unicorns, they had the sharp teeth of a carnivore.
Like regular unicorns, stallions and mares could be told apart in the stallions had small beards and mares were more slender unlike regular unicorns, mares had the same heavier musculature.
Black unicorns were crazed, hateful creatures that lived for violence. They delighted in causing pain and suffering and preferred to eat their meals alive. When wild, they enjoyed inflicting pain on anyone and everything around them for no reason other than the sheer joy of it. They especially hated horses and normal unicorns.
However, they were also chaotic, fickle, and concerned for their own safety it was not unknown for them to flee when the tide of battle turned against them.
Black unicorns, like their more peaceful kin, had multiple magical abilities. Like all unicorns, they could not be magically charmed or held and were immune to poison and death spells. They continually radiated silence in a  radius around them. Three times per day, they could turn invisible, or radiate darkness for  around them. Additionally, if they successfully attacked an opponent with their horn, they could inflict light wounds up to three times each day. Once per day, they could teleport themselves and their riders without risk, but could only teleport while in darkness or shadow. Their teleportation ability did not necessarily affect their rider, however, and the person would sometimes be left behind to fend for herself.
Black unicorns were highly intelligent and could learn to speak Common. Because of this, it was rumored that Thayan wizards were trying to teach them to cast spells with only verbal components.
Additionally, black unicorns could see up to  in complete and even magical darkness. However, they disliked light.
The horn of a black unicorn was poisonous anyone struck by it risked being paralyzed for as long as three days before dying of heart failure. The horn could be used to make an extremely potent and fast-acting poison that could kill or paralyze the victim. It could also be ground up to make a highly potent contact poison.
thumb|300px|A black unicorn of Thay.
Black unicorns were normally solitary but could also be found in small family units dominated by the strongest male or female. They were unnatural carnivores that particularly enjoyed eating humans, elves, horses, and normal unicorns. When found in the wild, they lived in plains and forests. They were not territorial and wandered from place to place, often invisibly.
Black unicorns were created by wizards in Thay, where they were kept as pets and as mounts in elite cavalry units. However, black unicorns would allow themselves to be ridden by any drow or human female of evil morality. They particularly enjoyed serving blackguards.
The process of becoming a black unicorn rider was hazardous the applicant had to petition the unicorn directly. If they were found acceptable, then the unicorn would serve if not, then the unicorn would immediately attack.
The horn of a black unicorn, when powdered, could be used to create a potent contact poison. The horn could also be affixed to the head of a lance to create a dangerous weapon.
Black unicorns were created by Thayan wizards by mixing the blood of tanarri with that of normal unicorns.
In the mid-to-late 14 century DR, black unicorns were known to be a mainstay of the Thayan military and served in it in large numbers. One prominent regiment of black unicorn riders were the Sisters of Cyric.
In the , a contingent of black unicorn cavalry accompanied Zulkir Nevrons forces in the ill-fated Battle of the Gorge at the Gorge of Gauros.
*Omen of Despair, a unique unicorn corrupted by the necromantic powers of Szass Tam in the late 15 century DR.