Bladelings were a species of outsider found in Acheron known for their xenophobia.
Bladelings were humanoid in form, about  tall, covered in sharp, metallic spines that grew in patches on their tough, metal-hued skin. Bladelings had purple eyes that glittered like ice.
Bladelings were superstitious and xenophobic, though those that travelled the planes were somewhat more amiable to strangers. However, while they immediately attacked and killed any who invaded their home, they were at least courteous to those who came peacefully.
The skin of bladelings, although metallic, was immune to rust and acid, and resistant to both cold and fire they were known to be resistant to some magics, although this seemed to be a property of the unknown metal their skin was made of rather than a property of bladelings themselves. Additionally, spells that targeted metal, such as heat metal, could target bladelings.
The metallic skin of bladelings also offered them some protection from ordinary piercing or bladed weapons. They could also unleash what was called a "razor storm", wherein they expelled part of their skin as high-speed shrapnel. However, this lowered their natural resistances and armor.
Bladelings were quick to fight and fearless in combat due to their natural armor and weapons. They were capable of fighting with either their spiked fists or actual weapons, such as longswords.
Bladelings were considered natives of the Outer plane of Acheron, with most living in their city of Zoronor, situated in the Blood Forest on the layer of Ocanthus. However, old legends said that the bladelings had originally come to Ocanthus from another plane, variously said to be Gehenna, Baator, or even an unknown metal plane. Yet other rumors stated they had originally been tieflings who became their own species. Bladelings were also known to live in the Barrens of Doom and Despair.
Some bladelings, normally female but not always, had the ability to call upon their mysterious deities these individuals became clerics and leaders amongst the bladelings. Most other bladelings became fighters, while a few males were known to become conjurers.
Zoronor was ruled by a priest-king whose tenets gave some amount of safety to the bladelings, and thus they obeyed him fanatically and would defend Zoronor with their lives. Other clerical bladelings were prone to playing politics, as bladelings in general had a tendency to internal strife though only the clerics politics were known to sometimes embroil whole districts. However, bladelings pulled together quickly when faced with an external threat. Few bladelings left their city except as assassins or as travellers.
It was said that a blade golem could only be made using the spirit of a bladeling as the animating force.
It was said that when the bladelings first arrived in Acheron, they were not immune to rusting and consequently were almost wiped out in their first years there due to the depredations of rust dragons, until through magical experiments they rendered themselves immune to corrosion of any sort.