Blizzard dragons were a species of catastrophic dragon that were infused with para-elemental ice.
The species were classically draconic in form (four legs and two wings and a head on a long neck) and, like other species of dragons, grew larger as they aged.
These dragons emitted an aura of freezing cold wind. Their mere presence caused surrounding air to chill and the ground to ice over. As they grew older, blizzard dragons learned to expand this aura at will, making the torrents of wind more violent and unbearably cold, slowing down their enemies and blinding them with snow. And if they were ever hit by an some magic or ability rooted in elemental cold, their aura would unleash a flurry to send the attacker flying back.
Their jaws and claws were painfully cold to the touch. A bite from them could temporarily freeze a creature in place and a swipe of their claws could send creatures sliding backwards.
Finally, blizzard dragons could unleash a torrent of ice when injured, with those of an ancient age capable of severely immobilizing their attackers.
Though they were fast fliers, blizzard dragons were quite clumsy and thus preferred to fight on solid ground. Fighting with their claws, jaws, and freezing cold special abilities. They preferred to take advantage of their surroundings whenever possible, such as triggering an avalanche and making icicles plummet down upon their opponents.
In addition to the Elemental Chaos and the plane of Pandemonium, blizzard dragons could occasionally be found in the coldest reaches of Prime Material worlds. Wherever they made their lair, whether it was on a mountainside or underground, a blizzard dragon would use their powers to mold the environment to their liking.
Blizzard dragons typically spoke the Common, Draconic, and Primordial languages.
Blizzard dragons harbored enmity towards all deities, but their greatest animosity was towards the Raven Queen and her servants. They would display anger towards anyone that invoked her or bore her holy symbol.
Blizzard dragons typically allied themselves with beasts of cold environs, such as winter wolves, and creatures of elemental ice like frost giants, frost titans, and ice archons. They were also willing to ally with others that had destructive and tyrannical ambitions, such as the winter fey or even a lich, if their goals aligned. They never hesitated to work alongside others of their kind or even other species of catastrophic dragons. Groups of blizzard dragons sometimes banded together under a dragon or some humanoid if doing so would either enact what they perceived as vengeance upon the gods, free Primordials from their imprisonment, or unleash dragons even more powerful than themselves.
Following Ios death at the hands of Erek-Hus during the Dawn War, a number of dragons became rebellious and discouraged. Viewing his successors Bahamut and Tiamat as weak and selfish, they instead turned to the Primordials for power.
It was a Primordial known as Umboras, the Lord of Rimefire, who attracted them as he sought out creatures that could help carry out his vengeance upon the Raven Queen. He ferried them away to the deepest, cold reaches of the Elemental Chaos. There their bodies were entombed by the ice and Umboras spent an entire year working his foul magic, eventually transforming them into blizzard dragons. As part of his forces the blizzard dragons transported the primordials various frost titans and ice archons to the Raven Queens realm. The goddess fled his forces and they chased her to the plane of Pandemonium, not suspecting that they were being lured into a trap. In the labyrinthine tunnels of that plane the Raven Queen managed to separate Umboras from his forces and trapped him within an empty vault.
With their master gone the blizzard dragons dispersed across the multiverse. Some stayed within the plane of Pandemonium, others returned to the Elemental Chaos, and a few managed to find their way to the coldest reaches of worlds on the Prime Material.
* In the late–15 century DR, a blizzard dragon lived beneath a frozen lake at the heart of Delhalls, acting as an obedient servant to an iceborn clone of Iyraclea.