trunk
| length       =  vines
| wingspan     = 
| weight       = 
| skincolor    = 
| haircolor    = 
| hairstyles   = 
| feathers     = 
| eyecolor     = 
| build        = 
| distinctions = 
| appearrefs   = 
| first        = 
| based        = 
| histrefs     = 
Bloodthorn vines, also known as vampire vines or vampire thorns, were a species of predatory vine found in the Realms.
These tough, wiry plants had smooth trunks that varied in brown to yellowish tones and on average grew to heights of . They had vines that were light green in color, yet looked desiccated, and were covered in leaves as well as sharp, hollow thorns. Their leaves were pointed, had two-lobes, and were pale in color. But once a bloodthorn fed, their leaves took on the same color as a victims blood.
On average their vines grew to lengths of , while their thorns were typically  in length. Bright red berries also grew continually on these plants. They were juicy, yet bitter, and produced a fragrant odor that appealed to most creatures
These plants were capable of a limited degree of movement. In addition, a few scholars believed that extreme cold could immobilize these plants and that electricity could cause them to grow.
Whenever a living creature came close to them a bloodthorn would lash out with as many of its tendrils as possible, grappling the creature and jabbing it with its thorns in an effort to extract blood. However, they typically ignored scavengers and allowed them to remove the carcasses of their victims.
Following the Spellplague, the inhabitants of the city of New Sharandar grew bloodthorns on their defensive wall, the Living Abatis.
After a good feeding of three or more human-sized victims, a bloodthorn would reproduce by shooting out seed thorns away from itself. Such thorns typically flew around  away from their parent.
These plants were a sanguivorous species, subsisting entirely on the blood of living creatures.
Bloodthorns were generally known to grow in thick, briar-like patches in deserts and plains. They were native to the Outer Planes, but could sometimes be found transplanted on Prime Material plane.
In northwest Faerûn, bloodthorn grew in the heavy woods of Cormanthor, Daggerdale, and Shadowdale. Particularly the Border Forest, Spiderhaunt Wood, and the Vale of Lost Voices. In west Faerûn, bloodthorns grew in the Forest of Tethir and the Forest of Mir. And beyond Faerûn, they grew in the jungles of Chult. 
Beyond the Prime Material, bloodthorns grew in the barren wastelands of the Abyss, Carceri, Outlands, Pandemonium, and the 248 layer. They also grew in the fiendish plane of Furys Heart.
Dryads and vine horrors were known to sometimes cultivate this plant to use as a guardian. And stirges were known to lair near them in hopes of preying on their ensnared victims. 
On the plane of Baator, bloodthorns were often consumed by grazing herds of stench kine.
Alchemists and wizards could often find uses for the hollow thorns of these plants.
Bloodthorns could be summoned by means of the spell summon natures ally IV.