Bloodbag imps were a specialized variety of imp that served the Nine Hells as an informal nurse corps.
Bloodbag imps were  tall humanoids with short limbs, stubby digits and powerful wings. They were almost as wide as they were tall due to being bloated with gallons of blood, the source of most of their weight. Their internal organs floated freely within the blood filling their torsos, held in place only by their pink, delicate and semi-translucent skin. They were preening creatures with long, crooked teeth that could make them difficult to understand despite their ability to speak.
Bloodbag imps, with their powerful wings and aerial competence, were good fliers, but kept from greater excellence by their heavy weight, and were slow and ungainly creatures in general. They had some of the common devil powers the ability to see perfectly in normal or magical darkness, an accelerated rate of regeneration, resistance to unsilvered weapons, and the imp ability to polymorph into certain small creatures. They also had spell-like abilities, including the power to castdetect good, detect magic, and invisibility (on itself only) at will, and vampiric touch once per day.
The iconic ability of the bloodbag imps was their power to grant a supernatural blood transfusion. Other creatures could drink a bloodbag imps blood to heal themselves, so long as the imp was willing, conscious and remained inactive during the process. Although this damaged the imp, it was not lethal and they quickly recovered. Bloodbag imps also possessed the unique ability to curse a creature within  of themselves, causing the subject to be wounded by strikes from any weapon and bleed profusely when injured, a curse which could be used up to three times each day. In addition, the bite of a bloodbag imp delivered a strength-sapping poison.
Bloodbag imps preferred to stay out of direct combat and afflict enemies with their wounding curse from a safe distance.
Bloodbag imps were skilled healers created by the devils as a means to restore their strength mid-battle due to their otherwise lacking access to curative magic. They were solitary creatures found throughout the Nine Hells, and could also be summoned by the spell summon monster IV. Bloodbag imps spoke the Common and Infernal languages.
* Caedes, a bloodbag imp that served a vampire in Waterdeep.