Bluespawn stonegliders were dragonspawn born to blue dragons. They acted as guards for temples of Tiamat.
Bluespawn stonegliders vaguely resembled large, iridescent blue termites.
Bluespawn stonegliders were single-minded and ferocious in their mandate to slay any and all creatures that did not bear the mark of Tiamat. They were only barely more intelligent than beasts and ill-tempered.
Bluespawn stonegliders might not have been the most intelligent dragonspawn, but they possessed several abilities that made them effective as guards and deadly in a fight. They were immune to electrical damage, magic that charmed or compelled, and coukld not be stunned they themselves released an electrical shock when they bit that potentially stunned victims. Even worse, stonegliders could earthglide, meaning that they glided, rather than dug, when burrowing, and left no tunnel behind them nor created any ripples in the ground while burrowing. Their iridescent scales and swift movement meant that they were blurry and difficult to spot while moving.
Additionally, all bluespawn stonegliders in an area were linked by a collective conscious.
Bluespawn stonegliders never fought alone, instead always retreating. In groups, however, they were deadly, as their collective conscious allowed them to coordinate attacks perfectly. They preferred to swarm and surround one or two foes, attacking or retreating as one. While they had some sense of self-preservation, they would continue to attack even in the face of extreme odds.
Bluespawn stonegliders were first created by priests of Tiamat in the Altar of Scales, although it was possible that the secret of creating them had leaked to the Cult of the Dragon.
Stonegliders ate meat and refuse, and areas where they lived were always immaculately clean since they would eat anything resembling food. Their trainers normally were the ones to feed them, as temple guards and priests often refused to do so because of the spawns poor temperament.
Bluespawn stonegliders were normally trained to recognize a certain sound or smell, such as a fragrence only worn by priests of that temple anyone who did not match this would be immediately attacked.