Bonedrinkers were repulsive undead creatures that were created via a certain dark ritual that transformed bugbears into these ghoulish beings and goblins into lesser bonedrinkers.
Bonedrinkers resembled hairless, grey, spindly, somewhat goblinoid humanoids with two tentacles protruding from under their arms, one on each side. Their squirming tentacles were pale in color, and their elongated fingers ended in sharp claws. Their mouths were filled with  long fangs, and their skin was covered in open sores that secreted pale pus.
As their name implied, bonedrinkers fed on the bones of their victims and behaved similarly to ghasts. Feeding was necessary for bonedrinkers as the longer the creatures went without eating bones, the more puss-oozing sores were covering their bodies. They were driven by constant hunger, becoming more desperate and more aggressive when deprived of bones.
Bonedrinkers could speak all languages they knew in life. Goblin language was the most common as well as Common.
Bonedrinkers were vulnerable to weapons made of gold or silver. Similarly to other undead, they were resistant to cold, as well as fire and sonic damage. They possessed keen sense of smell and darkvision of .
Solitary bonedrinkers always prayed on lone creatures and only risked attacking a group when hunting in groups. They usually pounced on their victims from hiding spots and tried to grapple, sinking the teeth with a single lunge. Victims fully drained by bonedrinkers collapsed into a boneless pile of flesh.
These undead creatures fed on bones which were liquified into a viscous substance by a foul chemical in bonedrinkers saliva and slurped out of the preys body. Any being that had bones in its body was bonedrinkers food source. However, they showed no interest in vermin, insects, or creatures with an exoskeleton.
Bonedrinkers were a creation of dark ritual, somewhat similar to those that created mummies, developed by bugbear wizards who risen dead bodies of their fellow goblins and bugbears. Most bonedrinkers were once creatures of those two species, but it was not a requisite for the ritual but mostly a tradition. It was possible to create bonedrinkers out of corpses of other humanoid species in theory, however, that was likely to require significant alteration of the existing dark ritual.
In the days following the Thayvian civil war that coincided with the Spellplague, undead armies of the Zulkir of Necromancy Szass Tam included many exotic undead creatures, including bonedrinkers.