Boneclaws were terrifying, undead creatures formed whenever a mage began―but ultimately failed to complete―the steps needed to complete the transformation to lichdom. These horrific monstrosities bonded to evil individuals, becoming their eternal servants. They were said to enthralled by some of worst of emotions any living being could ensure, namely despair, avarice, and malice.
While boneclaws resembled liches in some manners, they were notable different from their undead spellcasting counterparts. They had massive, oversized claws that they used to strike out against their masters foes.
Their physical forms could never be truly destroyed so long as their master lived and continued their malign ways in life. The physical bodies of boneclaws that were "destroyed" merely reformed within hours at their masters side.
They were extraordinarily resilient, and possessed a form of innate regeneration.
It was said that boneclaws were formed when a physically weak or unskilled mage attempted to navigate their soul from their body to a phylactery, but proved unsuccessful. The soul would actually travel across the Realms seeking out a new master for its essence, specifically an individual of immense evil. When the mages soul bonded with that individual, the boneclaw would form nearby.
Yet another theory, said that boneclaws were created by a dark ritual that bound an evil soul with a humanoid mass of bones and flesh. The secrets regarding this ritual were closely protected by malevolent spellcasters.
These creatures found absolute joy in slaying and inflicting pain upon others.
Boneclaws preferred to lurk in shadows and strike out at foes with their enormous, piercing claws. Their elongated arms could reach out to a range of up to .
They could not be harmed by extreme cold or frost, nor were they affected by necrotic energy.
Boneclaws served their evil master for the entirety of their unfortunate existence. If any boneclaws master were to turn their life around, and walk the path of goodness, the undead monster would immediately collapse into nothingness.
They were often manifested by liches, shadar-kai practitioners of necromancy, and priests of Orcus.
The method by which boneclaws came to be was unknown to most scholars for quite some time. For years, some sages speculated that they "evolved" from lesser undead creatures.
In truth it was Szass Tam, the undead regent of Thay, who created the first boneclaws on the face of Toril. Some dark spellcasters attributed the knowledge of their creation the night hag Grigwartha.
* Zahnya, a young member of the Red Wizards of Thay kept a boneclaw among her retinue of undead servants.