Bookas were an uncommon race of small, sprite-like fey. They were most closely related to sprites and pixies.
Bookas had thin, winged humanoid bodies. They were noted for having large features, particularly long pointy noses and broad ears, which many humans considered to be unattractive. Their wings were much like butterflies, delicate and brightly colored. On average they grew to be  tall.
Bookas were very peaceful creatures with a penchant for helping others, but were hostile towards evil creatures and would often play tricks on them whenever possible. They typically had a shy demeanor.
Bookas were very swift creatures and were able to turn themselves invisible at will, even when they were flying or running.
Bookas were generally not known to engage in direct combat. They could deliver painful bites, but these were no more dangerous than a paper cut.
According to a popular legend, bookas were the spirits of scullery maids who in life were negligent in their duties. Most scholars did not give this much credence.
A group of bookas causing some trouble for some hobgoblins.
Bookas typically lived in family units.
If one of their own was ever captured or harmed by other creatures, bookas aware of it would rally dozens of others to cause general mischief and problems for the offender(s). They would eventually resort to more drastic measures, setting up snares and traps that could prove fatal.
The only way to put an end to their persistent harassment was to free the captive booka or make amends for the harm theyd caused by leaving a valuable gift atop their roof or a place the bookas frequented. This gift could take the form of a sack of gold coins, jewelry, or even a magical item. However, if the harm caused to a booka was severe or even fatal, then no amount of offerings would quell their wrath.
Bookas were an omnivorous species of fey.
Bookas often lived within the eaves, attic rafters, and roofs of other creatures houses. In cold climates they tended to make their homes near heat sources, such as fireplaces or stoves. Due to their shy demeanor, a booka would typically never reveal its presence to its landlord. As such, they only came out when nobody was around to see them, such as when their homes occupants were away or at night while they slept.
Much like brownies, they engaged in a variety of household tasks when out of sight of their landlords. Such as sweeping, polishing, and mending. On bright sunny days they would go outside to frolic about, enjoying the rural area and collecting wild flowers.
Those who recognized the presence of a booka and understood how they operated would leave out small offerings of food. However, those who tried to find them or caught them while they were working would offend the booka, leading to them moving out and searching for a new home.
Bookas were found in a wide range of areas, including forests, fens, and even large cities. However, they were typically found in rural areas, especially farming communities, with temperate climates as they hated the cold. In such climates they spent most of their time indoors. 
Some were known to inhabit the Vast, where they frequented the For-Rest Inn in Ravens Bluff. Beyond Toril, they could be found on the planet of Oerth.
Bookas spoke their own language, very similar to the standard fey language of sylvan. They also tended to know Elvish and Common. And it was not uncommon for some to know Thieves cant.