Bookworms were dangerous pests and the bane of librarians everywhere.
Bookworms were tiny creatures, usually only measuring  in length. The base color of a bookworms body at birth was white, but would develop into a dull gray shade due to their ingestion of ink.
Bookworms were capable of blending in with their surroundings, similar to a chameleon. Their senses could smell any book, spellbook, map, or scroll within . Their jaws were capable of boring through wood and even leather if needed to reach their desired food. When fleeing from danger, they were capable of hopping  into the air.
Bookworms bred only once in their lifetime. When they did, typically on average a brood of 80 eggs was laid and the mating pair died shortly afterwards. Only half of the eggs within a brood would hatch the following month. Those newly hatched bookworms would die in less than half an hour if they did not obtain food.
The average life-span of a bookworm was two to three years. This was due in part to the ink from paper they ate building up in their system, eventually killing them.
These slight creatures avoided combat at all costs, using their speed to escape threats. But until attacked, a feeding bookworm would remain motionless.
In the late 14 century DR, Ravens Bluff resident Skully sometimes sought out and purchased bookworms. He secretly offered these for sale at his shop, Skullys Bar and Bait, as highly priced fishing bait.
Bookworms were considered a serious danger by many temples, libraries, magic users, and government buildings.
Bookworms fed on paper and bindings. They were incapable of eating any other living material, including the ink that was so prevalent in among the things they ate.
Bookworms inhabited libraries or any other place where a large volume of printed lore could be found. If a bookworm was discovered, then the chances were high that plenty more were feasting nearby.
In northwest Faerûn, some inhabited the Ardeep Forest.Dragon #128s article "Welcome to Waterdeep" states that Monster Manual IIs "cold, civilized forest" table is representative of what can be found in Ardeep forest. In west Faerûn they could be found in Tethyr, where they were of concern to the library Seirystrum.
Some people were known to utilize the destructive potential of bookworms for their gain. Such as exacting revenge on a mage and destroying incriminating documents. However, it was difficult to keep bookworms alive in captivity and there was an ever-present danger that the creature might follow their captor home once released.
Bookworms were also known to be used as material components in a variety spells and alchemical recipes. In particular, residual ink from their bodies could be used in the creation of a scroll of protection from magic.