Brambles were a small race of evil fey.
Brambles were a humanoid looking race that on average grew to be  tall. Their skin was dark and wrinkled, they had long pointed finger and toe nails, and their ears pointed to a degree beyond that of elves. A brace of spines stuck out from their backs, that looked as though they could support miniature dragon wings.
Many of the features of brambles were hidden beneath plate mail armor that they typically wore. This armor was covered in artificial spines and barbs that harmed those who touched them. It also had holes through which their wine-spine poked out of.
Brambles were considered to be among some of the vicious and aggressive races of fey. They were supremely confident when dealing with taller creatures, such as humans, who they considered to be "giants". They would think nothing of challenging a "giant" to a wrestling match and rarely honored any bets they made regarding them.
thumb|273px|A bramble leers back at someone, showing off their long wing-spines.
Some brambles were known to secrete a strong poison from their wing-spines that caused a painful burning sensation.
Brambles were capable of casting the spell charm mount. One in ten brambles were also known to be capable of casting a special spell of anti-flying once per day. While they sometimes used the latter for the purpose of hunting, they especially liked to cast it on flying faeries like pixies and sprites so they could cruelly chase them through the woods.
Though brambles occasionally wielded weapons in the form of barbed spears that they used like javelins, they largely attempted to use hurl themselves at their opponents and harm them with their barbed armor. Whenever faced with an opponent that was  tall or smaller, they would try to wrestle them.
Some rumors alleged that the bramble race began as outcasts of more "polite" faerie society, most likely descending from gorses.
These vicious fey lived in nomadic bands and were more than willing to use their strong poison against dissenting members. Whenever a band grew too large it would split in half, heading off in opposite directions.
They sometimes gathered small amounts of easily transported treasure that they used to bribe other creatures into manufacturing the special armor they wore.
Brambles were known to ride upon small creatures such as almirajs, hedgehogs, and porcupines through use of their charm mount spell.
Brambles were an omnivorous species of fey.
Brambles were typically found to live in grasslands, hills, and prairies in regions with a temperate or subarctic climate. When not traveling they camped within thorny bushes and other forms of natural protection, using their mounts as guards.
In addition to the language of fey, brambles had a slim understanding of the Elven language.
Brambles were a favored monster of the deity Lolth and the Queen of Air and Darkness.
It was possible to drain the poison from a brambles wing-spines, but the output was applicable for little more than an arrowhead or a dart. It would take over ten or more to coat something larger like a longsword. In addition, some collectors were willing to pay a lot of money for a set of their unique armor.