Campestris were a species of sentient fungal-creatures related to myconids.
These creatures bore some resemblance to myconids, but compared to them had a far stronger resemblance to mushrooms and lacked arms. Their bodies varied in color from dark brown to tan to white. Their caps were always purple or red with speckles.
Campestris had a degree of semi-intelligence, shared collectively among each herd. They were very carefree, had a rudimentary sense of reason, and a warped sense of humor. They were captivated by any sort of singing or playing of an instrument, no matter how terrible it was, and would happily sing along as they danced around the individual.
Campestris were capable of locomotion by expanding and contracting their "root-balls." Once per day they could release a cloud of spores within a  radius that had an effect similar to the spell slow.
It was very difficult to surprise these creatures, as they were very sensitive to sounds and vibrations. They could also easily imitate both music and words.
Besides their spores, a campestri would butt itself against a creature to act as a distraction. Sometimes they would swarm a spellcaster, butting themselves against it in order to prevent spellcasting.
thumb|right|250px|They look like a real fungi.
Once they ran through a song or piece of music three or four times a campestri would remember it, though they had a tendency to mix and match parts of different tunes.
Campestris were herbivorous creatures. In areas where soil had excessive salt they would filter that out and excrete a slippery paste of purified soil. The eating of salt or salty soil also imparted such a taste upon their bodies, similar to caviar.
Campestris typically lived in saltwater marshes and swamps. The North was one of the few places in the Realms where they were known to be found.
Druids and others skilled in herbalism were often familiar with these creatures. Most creatures avoided eating them, though bullywugs considered them to be a delicacy.
Campestris acted as servants of the deity Brandobaris.