Carrionettes were malicious tiny constructs, simple toys, animated to be parasitic creatures, living off of humans, humanoid, and monstrous humanoid societies.
Adventurers in the Domains of Dread and a swarm of carrionettes.
Carrionettes were always armed with tiny piercing weapons, like knives, stilettos, or razors. In addition to miniature weapons, carrionettes carried a quiver full of ten silver needles with thread that the animates threw like spears at the distance of . Each needles thread was a magic cord attached to the carrionettes hand, and once the needle pierced its target, it partially paralyzed them. Each needle could paralyze a single part of the body, and the magic cord turned invisible once the paralysis took hold. Carrionettes attempted to fully paralyze their victims with several needles and could attack sleeping individuals as easy prey. The last needle plunged into the victims base of the neck, allowing the carrionette to possess the humanoid victim. Once the carrionette possessed their victim, they gained full control of the humanoid body within a single minute. They immediately removed all silver needles from their bodies, whilst their victims essence was placed within the marionette that hosted the creature before. The victim was stuck within the toy, but unlike a carrionette, the toy was not animated.
Living as parasites, carrionettes were found in settlements where they hid amongst childrens toys or theater marionettes to remain hidden. They pretended to be inanimate toys for as long as they needed to locate a desired victim they could possess – the creatures desperate and only goal in existence. They often were either solitary beings or orderless packs of two to eight carrionettes. Once a carrionette successfully possessed a humanoid body, they abandoned their packs and did not interact with others of their kind however, they still could feel other carrionettes nearby.
Many carrionette creations were accidental, conjured by individuals searching to animate their favorite toys. One could craft a carrionette body with a month of labor, and the process of animating a prepared vessel was identical to the process used in the animation of golems. The rituals of animation involved casting of the detect magic, slow, and magic jar spells.
It was believed that the very first carrionette was created by Guiseppe, a toymaker from the Domain of Dread known as Odiare, who sought to animate his favorite marionette to act as his child. The carrionette, Maligno, ended up creating more of its kind and becoming the realms Darklord.