or same as host +1
Cerebral hoods were a type of cerebral symbiont, aberrations believed to have some connection to mind flayers and that sought out symbiotic relationships with other creatures, usually forcing this position of "host" upon helpless or stunned individuals.
These small creatures bore a resemblance to cloakers, though they lacked any eyes or mouth. They had amorphous, leathery black bodies sporting a long tail. This tail was thick and heavy, with numerous spiny protrusions, and housed a tubular mouth. This tail was the connection point between a cerebral hood and a host.
A cerebral hood attached itself to a host by means of engulfing their head with its body, then extending its into the hosts mouth and down their throat. Once extended down, the tails spiny protrustions would extend out to form connections with the host bodys circulatory, digestive, and nervous systems.
The entire body of a cerebral hood acted as a primitive sensory organ, granting them what some would call a form of "blindsight", from which they could ascertain the position of objects and other creatures within  through scent and vibrations. They also possessed an innate form of telepathy, allowing them to communicate with other creatures within .
Their main offensive ability was a mind blast. While attached to a host, this psionic power affected all sentient creatures within a  emanating from the cerebral hood, though without a host the power only emanated outwards of  and inflicted a shorter stunning effect. Each mind blast drew upon the mental energies of a cerebral hoods host, meaning overuse of the power could destroy a hosts mind.
A creature acting as a cerebral hoods host was imparted a number of benefits, making their relationship symbiotic. They were conferred the "blindsight" sensory inputs of the cerebral hood. They had immunity to harmful gases, poisons, and inhaled diseases. They had no need to breath, as a cerebral hood would provide oxygen through its tail. And they were never at risk of dehydration or starvation, as a cerebral hood would supply the host nutrients through its tail.
Like most symbionts, cerebral hoods were physically very weak, thus they generally shied away from attacking with their bodies. They much preferred to rely upon their mind blast and their host for protection. When forced to do so, they would attempt to slap at an opponent with their tail.
A cerebral hood subsisted off of the mental energies produced by their host. Ordinarily they were conservative with their consumption, making sure they kept their hosts at an equilibrium of minor mental drain.
Cerebral hoods lived in subterranean environments. They sometimes lingering around the lairs of mind flayers in hopes of being able to force themselves upon anyone that fell victim to a mind flayers mind blast.
These creatures spoke no language of their own, though they all carried an understanding of Undercommon.
Around the , adventurers occasionally encountered cerebral hoods whilst traversing the Dungeon Level of Undermountain.