Chain golems were huge, humanoid-shaped constructs fashioned out of chains, that were developed by kytons and often mistaken at a glance for being them.
The chains that made up one of these constructs varied in size and shape, ranging from extremely thin to thick. They typically had sharp edges, barbs, spikes, or blades on them. And the chains were always shifting and sliding about its body, making clanking and screeching noises.
Chain golems were subservient constructs, obeying every command given to them by their masters and willing to sacrifice themselves if necessary. Should their master ever die, a chain golem would make itself subservient to the nearest kyton.
These golems possessed all the magical immunities that were common among golems. However, electrical-based spells would slow them down and fire-based spell would undo such slowing effects in addition to healing them to a minor degree.
Chain golems primarily fought by lashing out with their chains and bashing with their fists. They specialized in shooting their chains out at foes, enwrapping them into an immobilized state, and then pulling them closer to be pummeled mercilessly or shredding them with their bladed chains. They could also surround themselves in a whirling, slicing shield of chains, much like the blade barrier spell.
These golems were often used as guardians over prisoners, of unholy places, and as bodyguards of devils. Occasionally, they were even selected to carry out special missions, being sent to the Prime Material to deliver or retrieve either an item or message.
Kytons were largely believed to be the only ones with the knowledge of how to create chain golems and they went to great lengths to keep this method a secret, even from other devils. Whenever a creature other than a kyton acquired the means of how to create a chain golem or developed their own way, the kytons would strive to assassinate them before they could spread their knowledge to others.
In 1445 DR, an inert chain golem was discovered and placed within an collection of exotic trophies inside the many-towered mansion of Yarlburl Berethcloak in Baldurs Gate. Since its initial discovery and placement in the mansion, the golem had never moved once. Then early in the summer of 1476 DR, the mysterious Awakener activated it and had the chain golem open the mansions gold vaults, pulverizing many private guards in the process. Stealing a chest full of gems, the chain golems proceeded to lumber through the streets of Baldurs Gate and deliver it to the Awakener at an inn. The man then had the golem begin wrecking the inn, acting as a distraction while he escaped. Neighboring citizens hastily assembled three priests and two wizards, whose combined efforts put an end to the chain golem.