Chronotyryn were a species of extraplanar, bird-like creatures with powerful magical abilities. They claimed to be the masters of time and hoarded knowledge in their nests. Though believed to be natives of Acheron, they had since scattered across the planes.
Chronotyryns resembled large birds approximately  from beak to tail, with a set of wiry, scaly arms situated just below the wings. Some observers described the shape of their body as similar to that of a gargoyle. Their feathers were widely described as "the dark, dusky color of adamantine".This is likely an inaccurate description, as adamantine is jet-black in color, not dusky, which usually denotes darker or greyish shades of chromatic colors. Based on the picture, chronotyryns are a dark purple-grey. The eyes were also dark, and they had the characteristic hooked beak of a bird-of-prey.
They typically wore a harness that allowed them to carry various magical items, often ones of their own make.
While not obviously malevolent, chronotyryns were arrogant and selfish creatures who hoarded knowledge and never willingly shared what they knew. They were usually lawful evil.
Chronotyryns had a number of skills and abilities. They had both darkvision and low-light vision, and could detect magic at will. They were curiously unaffected by sonic energy and were resistant to damage caused by extreme cold, electricity, fire, and acid. All adult chronotyryns spoke the Abyssal, Celestial, Draconic, and Infernal languages, as well as at least three others—typically Undercommon, Orcish, and Jotun.
Among their magical abilities, they could make a shriek that caused a burst of destructive sound around themselves, to a range of . Moreover, they possessed many spell-like abilities, including teleport without error, blink, and feeblemind at will thrice daily time stop and displacement and once a day iron body, plane shift, and temporal stasis. And they were natural arcane sorcerers, typically capable of casting at least one sixth-tier spell.
In combat, chronotyryns used their dual brains to act twice as efficiently as most other creatures. They were capable of using their natural weaponry—wings, beak, and clawed feet—in a fight. Additionally, they could throw their metal feathers at enemies up to  away, thrice a day. Most chronotyryns preferred to open combat from a distance with their magic, however, and relied upon time stop to overcome especially tough foes.
Chronotyryns were believed to be native to Acheron, though they were found on many different planes, including Banehold in the Barrens of Doom and Despair, and in many different environments on land and underground. However, their nests were invariably built in hidden places unlikely to be found by chance and were constructed of magical paraphernalia stolen from past victims. They were known to live alone, in pairs, or in clutches of four to eight individuals.
A physiological peculiarity of chronotyryns was that they possessed two brains and two voice boxes, which was the source of some of their terrifying power and intelligence. Their dual voice boxes meant they could carry on two simultaneous conversations at other times, more eerily, they echoed their own voice. Any given adult chronotyryn possessed at least as much knowledge on a given topic as a sage, even in areas they had not trained in.