Clams were a common type of [https//en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mollusca mollusk] found across Faerûn from the Sword Coast North to the Unapproachable East.
Clams were simple marine creatures. Like most mollusks, they had soft bodies protected by hard shells.
thumb
Some clams, especially in warm waters, could grow to monstrous proportions, becoming giant clams.
thumb
Named for their shape (which was reminiscent of a straight razor), these clams lived in sandy shallows. They would withdraw into the sand to escape predators.
thumb
These were named for their tendency to be found living in large reefs within temperate and cold waters.
Clams were a staple food in places such as Calaunt in The Vast, Yeshpek in the Land of the Lions, Skullport beneath Waterdeep, Urbryur in Altumbel, and the Dusk Port of Tarsith. They were also commonly eaten across much of western and central Faerûn in places like Baldurs Gate, Cormyr, Daggerford, Elturel, Immurks Hold, Luskan, Neverwinter, Scornubel, Tulmene, and Ten Towns. Clams were thus also an important trade good in locations where they could be harvested readily. They were a major export out of Yeshpek, and their sale was heavily regulated in Ravens Bluff such that they (along with several other forms of seafood) could not be sold within the city unless the transaction involved a member of the Fishmonger Association.
Aquatic races used live clams kept in mesh bags as convenient rations. 
Clamshells were sometimes valued as trinkets by the people of Faerûn. Empty clamshells were used by the undersea peoples of Serôs to store potions and medicines.
Clams were filter-feeders. In the presence of plentiful food, they could grow enormous.
Clams were common in offshore reefs Freshwater clams could be found in the rivers of the Sword Coast and Heartlands the Starwater River in Cormyr, Firedrake Bay, Clams could further be found outside the Material Plane, such as in the Elemental Plane of Water, at locations like the Citadel of Ten Thousand Pearls, and in the depths of Ossa, the oceanic second layer of Arborea.
Clams were sometimes viewed as a nuisance by undersea races, who had to clear them from their buildings and construction sites.
Among many other kinds of seafood, clams were a favorite meal of deep dragons. Clams were natural prey of animals such as starfish and feeblestars&mdashwho used their limbs to break open clams hard shells and octopuses. Vodyanoi were able to bite straight through a clams shell to eat them.
Of course, humanoids also ate clams, including most aquatic races. Some rangers were skilled at finding them along coastlines, while sahuagin would plant them and other mollusks much like crops. Freshwater clams were farmed by the lizardfolk that dwelt in an unnamed swamp on the island of Raerest off the coast of Candlekeep.
Brymmyn Thorl, a magister who lived during the 3 century DR, was fond of killing his foes by polymorphing them into clams and leaving them to helplessly suffocate outside of water.
In the late 1360s DR, massive clam beds were constructed off the coast of Dawngleam by a joint venture among the merfolk of the Dragonmere and the humans of Cormyr as part of Dawngleam’s rapid expansion into an economic center.
As of the mid-to-late 14 century DR, clams were sold at the Flying Fish market in Daggerford In Ravens Bluff, clam chowder was served at the Painted Boat Restaurant, In Elturel, salted freshwater clams were served at A Pair of Black Antlers In Scornubel, clams were fried in butter at the Far Anchor. In Tulmene, they were baked into tarts at the Fast Sails.