Clay warriors were tiny terracotta clay constructs of Myth Drannor, crafted and placed inside tombs and crypts of distinguished military leaders. The clay warriors served symbolic, decorative, and defensive purposes.
Typical clay warriors were  tall and shaped to bear elven features. The warriors had an aura of transmutation magic, which was detectable by spellcasters.
The material clay warriors were created out of was vulnerable to the ravages of time. Some of the elven terracotta constructs were cracked, damaged, and crumbled after centuries of standing guard in their posts.
Like other constructs, clay warriors were immune to spells and abilities that affected ones mind and to poisons and diseases. They also were unaffected by seriously damaging attacks, by effects that drained or damaged ones ability, and by energy drain.
These quick-moving constructs wielded tiny spears with the limited reach of .
The best way of dealing with the hundreds of these constructs was to destroy them before activating the warriors magics. When a hapless treasure hunter touched the item the army guarded, or breached the room they were enchanted to defend, the terracotta swarm would relentlessly attack the perpetrator. Once the treasure hunter that activated them was swarmed and surrounded, the rest of the army targeted any other threat in the room. Clay warriors always fought in melee and never used their spears as thrown weapons.
An army of these terracotta clay warriors was placed inside Lyssics Crypt in Polyandrium to symbolize the troops that were led by the human commander of Myth Drannors military, Lyssic, after his death sometime during the heyday of the city, before the Weeping War.
At some point in 1369 DR or not long before, the crypt was breached by treasure hunters, who activated the dormant clay warriors that served as a traditional decoration, and a defense mechanism. The army was enchanted to activate and attack anyone who tried to remove any of the Lyssics treasures.
The treasure hunters managed to destroy a part of the tiny construct army, around a hundred of the terracotta warriors, before perishing to the tombs defenses.