Clockroaches, or Lantanese clockroaches, were constructs created as cleaning automatons for use in dungeons and workshops.
Lantanese clockroaches were small bug-like constructs the size of a dog. Their faces sprouted sharp pincers and a nozzle that could discharge deadly acid and often dripped when inactive.
Most commonly, clockroaches were made out of brass or bronze, with steel and iron specimens being a rare occurrence.
Similarly to bugs, clockroaches could climb as fast as they could move and burrow through earth and stone with ease. This was thanks to clockroaches legs being covered in tiny hooks.
Clockroaches did not have autonomy. They were controlled by a command amulet and performed tasks assigned by an individual who possessed the amulet. In order to program a clockroach, its master had to place the command amulet into a slot on the constructs carapace. Instructions could be at most twenty-five words. One such amulet was valued at 2,150 gp.
Apart from their sharp pincers, clockroaches main weapon was the magically-replenishing acid the creatures sprayed out of nozzles on their faces. The acid spray had the reach of . Clockroaches only attacked when explicitly instructed to do so, when ordered to clean an area, or in self-defense.
Like other constructs, clockroaches needed no air, food, water, nor sleep.
thumb|A clockroach from the Lantan-Samarach portal logging camp.
Clockroaches originated from the island nation of Lantan – creations of Gonds Wondermakers. Due to their usefulness, clockroaches were exported out of Lantan and used across many places throughout the Sword Coast. One explorer attempted to use a horde of clockroaches to clear a way to a certain ruin in the jungles of Chult. The plan was an utter failure, unleashing a swarm of clockroaches into the wild with the detective to devour.
Circa the , clockroaches were used by the Lantanna artificers who ran an illegal logging operation in the jungles of Samarlogh. The Lantan-Samarach portal was at the center of the logging camp, guarded by numerous clockroaches, Lantanese blade spiders, and other constructs, maintained by Ahri "Golemkin". Some of the Lantanese clockroaches came in easily transportable collapsible configurations.
In the , a single clockroach belonged to Halasters Heirs who resided on the Dungeon Level of the mega-dungeon underneath Waterdeep – Undermountain.