Crypt cats were a type of undead created from mummified cats to guard burial chambers.
Crypt cats had dry, shrunken bodies with mangy clumps of fur that had dry clay clinging to it. Their teeth were yellow and often broken, while their eyes were mere husks in gaping sockets.
These creatures were often fitted with expensive pieces of jewelry, such as a golden bell or a ring through the ear.
Crypt cats were immune to charm effects, hold monster, sleep, and death magic. They were immune to poisons. And they could not be turned while in the presence of a more powerful undead master, unless said master was also turned.
Those attacked by a crypt cat could potentially be afflicted with a disease, which manifested as a red inflammation around where one was wounded. Said wound could not be healed until the afflicted had either the spell cure disease or heal cast upon them.
These creatures fought with their claws and fangs. They would fight to the death in order to protect their master.
Over time as Myth Glaurachs mythal decayed, its fertility effect on cats became corrupted, making it so that any feline killed within its confines would arise as a free-willed crypt cat.
In 1375 DR, a group of adventurers discovered some crypt cats within the tomb of the Netherese scholar Augathra the Mad.
A group of humans open up a crypt cats ornate sarcophagus.
Crypt cats were typically placed inside of either wooden coffins or stone sarcophagi, which would be placed beside their master and often other non-magical, mummified cat remains. These coffins or sarcophagi would be elaborately carved and painted to depict cats at play in an afterlife full of birds and mice. In some other cases, their sarcophagi were painted to resemble the cat when it was alive.
Opening their coffin or sarcophagi was typically enough to awake them from their slumber. Attempting to desecrate or rob the tomb they were in would also cause a crypt cat to rise. If their master was an undead creature they could rise at any time said master was active, unless ordered to remain within their tomb.
Crypt cats were created by coating the corpse of a cat with a thin layer of clay containing magical salves and oils. The feline used could be of any species and while larger species were sometimes used, it was typically the domestic variety that was made into crypt cats. The exact composition of the clay was unknown, though some assumed that high-level necromantic spells were involved.
Once their body dried it was painted in brilliant colors to mimic the cats fur pattern.
Beyond the Prime Material plane, these creatures could be found in the Domains of Dread.
Cults that worshiped cats were known to create this kind of undead.
Besides guarding tombs, crypt cats were sometimes used as minions by intelligent undead.