Crystal dragons were a breed of gem dragon known to be the friendliest of their kind and to enjoy conversing with other creatures. They were named for the similarity to crystal.
Crystal dragons had a milky-white coloration Under the light of a moon or stars, they luminesced and sparkled, and in bright sunlight they had a dazzling brilliance.
A hatchling had a  body and  tail, while an adult had a body length of  and a tail length of . The biggest great wyrms grew to  long in the body, with tails  long.
They were the most amiable of the gem dragons. Although crystal dragons rarely went looking for companionship, they eagerly welcomed visitors to converse with, especially if they were interesting or appeared friendly and not trying to rob them. Otherwise, they tried to avoid meeting them.
Crystal dragons had an endless curiosity about the world, which they tried to satisfy by talking with people about it.
They also loved having fun and making mischief, often in the snow. Crystal dragons would hurl snowballs at unsuspecting targets, fashion splendid sculptures from snow and ice, and construct snow forts and even amazing palaces on mountaintops.
The breath weapon of a crystal dragon was a cloud of glowing shards, forming a cone of light up to  in length for an adult. The shards struck and harmed all those caught in the blast, but the real danger was the dazzling and brilliant white light they emitted, which blinded opponents caught within for for up to an hour in early cases, a matter of minutes, or up to two dozen seconds in later cases.
Crystal dragons were naturally immune to light-based spells and similar attacks and to natural cold or to all cold and cold-based spells.
Like any dragon, and in addition to the common powers of gem dragons, crystal dragons gained an array of magical powers as they aged, though accounts of these varied. Alternatively, adults could charm person thrice a day, old dragons could create a color spray thrice a day, ancient dragons could dominate anothers mind once a day, and great wyrms could control winds once a day, though psionic crystal dragons could control air instead.
Similarly, crystal dragons could acquire and cast new spells of their own, whether arcane or divine, but they were most noted for their talent in psionics. Those who were so gifted learned the psionic attacks ego whip, or id insinuation and the psionic defenses mind blank or thought shield. or telepathy
They were skilled in acquiring information, swimming, and leaping.
250px|Lady Gemcloak sighted by dwarves while hunting for her supper.
Although they were a little irresponsible with their young, crystal dragons were fairly good parents. Families raised clutches of two to five offspring, and they were likely to be encountered alone or in such clans.
They favored a diet of gemstones and metal ores over any other foods, but could subsist on elemental matter such as air.
Crystal dragons spoke Draconic
Like the rest of the gem dragons, crystal dragons were rarer in the Realms than the common chromatic and metallic dragons.
There were on occasion conflicts between crystal dragons and white dragons. and a few crystal dragons would adopt young white dragons or even steal their eggs. This was apparently in an effort to raise them to be friendlier dragons, though if successful, such dragons were incredibly rare.
However, despite their general friendliness, crystal dragons carried a strong animosity toward giants of all kinds. and even allied with white dragons to discover crystal dragon lairs and capture their young.
Crystal dragons acted as servants of the deities Aerdrie Faenya, Brandobaris, Erevan Ilesere, Gond, and Vergadain.
Crystal dragons who dwelt on the Material Plane preferred to live atop cold high mountains, usually on the very peaks and crags. for their stargazing
In fact, a good number of crystal dragons resided on the Elemental Plane of Air, the most open-skies place of all.
Crystal dragons were known to live on the High Ice, north of Anauroch. However, so too did their white dragon rivals, and they regularly clashed when they came across one another. The crystal dragons had also wiped out frost giants that had tried to settle in the area.
The northern Thunder Peaks, east of Cormyr were cool enough to support but one gem dragon, who was a crystal dragon in the mid-to-late 14 century DR.
In the Unapproachable East, crystal dragons could be found in the hills and mountains of Rashemen.
If attacked by visitors, a crystal dragon would try to retreat as quickly as it could—not to run away but to observe its foes using its powers and plan its response. Otherwise, it had no qualms about fighting back.
When enjoying the company of especially friendly visitors, a very old or older crystal dragon might gift them with one of its luckscales, though its enchantment only lasted a matter of hours.
350px|A crystal dragon clutching its egg for safekeeping.
Once, a band of frost giants from the farthest north of Faerûn migrated south to settle in the High Ice, and there encountered several crystal dragons. In their arrogance or rashness, the giants tried to enslave the dragons, only to be utterly destroyed by them. Thereafter, no giant of any kind would step foot on the High Ice. The hill giants of the Plain of Standing Stones related this warning tale by the mid-1360s DR.
During the Dracorage of 1373 DR, crystals and other gem dragons used their power to shift between planes to escape Toril entirely. They waited out the rage and afterward returned one by one to resume where they left off, but many encountered difficulties.
* Hrodel, a thane of the gem dragon deity Sardior, the Ruby Dragon.
* Saryndalaghlothtor, "Lady Gemcloak", who lived with the House of the Axe dwarves of the Crags and Mirabar.
* Yiarni, the kindly adult crystal dragon of the Thunder Peaks.
* Klaruuotur, ancient guardian of the family of the djinni lord Calim.
* Krustalonos, companion of the mage Tulrun of the Tent.