Cuprilachs were among some of the most dangerous of the rilmani subspecies.
Cuprilachs bore a resemblance to humans, but had the slight and wiry graceful frames typical of elves and half-elves. Their skin was of a coppery metallic color and they had featureless, ruby-red eyes, which emitted a pearly light.
These rilmani had a very hot-tempered, arrogant air. They were also quite rebellious and violent. Despite this nature, they never refused a target and served aurumachs to the best of their ability.
Cuprilachs believed that the only way maintaining the Balance that the rilmani held so dear was to eliminate powerful creatures with extreme alignments. They felt that there were no tricks or ruses too underhanded for them to pull off in the name of their mission.
They possessed an innate spellcasting ability, allowing them to cast at will charm person, delude, detect invisibility, ESP, fog cloud, forget, improved invisibility,  wraithform, detect thoughts, knock, locate creature, Melfs acid arrow, misdirection, and see invisibility. Three time per days they could cast the spells dimension door, enervation, mislead, and poison.
In addition, cuprilachs could cast the standard rilmani arsenal of spells darkness, dismissal, continual light, hold monster, and teleport without error. They always had the spell know alignment active.
Beyond spells, cuprilachs could conjure a fan-shaped spray of acid,  long and  wide, once per day. And they could summon one to three ferrumachs to their aid.  They could only be harmed by weapons with a +2 or greater enchantment.
Like all rilmani, cuprilachs could freely travel to the Astral plane or any of the Outer Planes, but their access to the Prime Material plane was restricted. They were only capable of traveling there if a creature of law or chaos of equal power was already present.
Cuprilachs preferred to face their opponents with a stealthy approach, 
They were often known to fight with short swords and throwing stars, longbows of speed, and rapiers. Even when unarmed a cuprilach was a dangerous combatant, as they were generally skilled martial artists.
right|An aurumach (left) and a cuprilach (right).
In the hierarchy of rilmani society the cuprilachs were above abiorachs and ferrumachs, but below argenachs. Within this society they acted as assassins, secret soldiers, and spies. They were considered by many to be among some of the best assassins across the planes.
When not working they engaged in rigorous training, driving themselves at a brutal pace, or would tear up the Spire in wild celebrations.
Cuprilachs were primarily found in the Outlands, in the regions that were closest to the Spire. They could be encountered anywhere within the Astral and Outer Planes, but were rarely seen on the Prime Material plane.
In the World Tree cosmology, they could be found in the House of Knowledge.
Like all rilmani the cuprilachs were capable of speaking their own species language, Common, and Undercommon. In addition, they were known to speak the languages Abyssal, Celestial, and Infernal.