Deepspawn () were monstrous aberrations that could birth many other varieties of monsters, known as their "spawn."
Deepspawn were mottled grey and brown, and looked like rubbery spheres  in diameter. Six arms, each up to  long, projected from their bodies, three of which were tentacle-arms able to wield weapons while another three were jaw-arms, ending in mouths of many teeth. A deepspawn also had over 40 long, retractable, flexible eyestalks, but it extended only three or four at a time, well away from harm.
A deepspawn could birth a copy of any creature native to the Material Plane.
Only an exact duplicate of a creature could be created by a deepspawn, and spawn even retained the learned abilities and dim memories of the original creature. Spawn had an intense, inborn loyalty to their deepspawn "parent" that could not be shaken, even through magic.
thumb|250px|A depiction of a deepspawn.Deepspawn possessed genius intellect, which was paired with an inscrutable worldview that made them quite dangerous. They laired in caves and ruins, often well defended by deadly traps and patrolling spawn. They created spawn to serve and protect them.
Deepspawn preferred to fight on their own terms, and would bury themselves for protection and await enemies in easily defended&mdashbut also easily escapable&mdashlocations. They used all six of their tentacle- and jaw-arms to strike at foes simultaneously, and would wrap their tentacles around enemies to constrict them. They also possessed the innate ability to cast certain spells, including hold monster, detect thoughts, water breathing, and heal.
Over the centuries, the deepspawn fended off attacks by the dwarves, the duergar, the drow, and monstrous beings like aboleths, cloakers, and illithids.
The first to encounter the deepspawn were the dwarves of the Deep Kingdom beneath the eastern Shaar, which swiftly began a long campaign to exterminate or make use of the strange monsters.
In the month of Eleasias in the Year of Larks,&minus183 DR, Darrom Ithal, the first king of Tethyr, was assassinated by the teleportation of a deepspawn directly into his throne room. This had been orchestrated by Amir Tarseth, the kings brother-in-law and leader of Clan Tarseth.
In the , the recently founded town of Hillsfar was nearly destroyed by an army of spawn emerging from the Beast Marches, with the horde only being contained by winter of that year thanks to assistance from Cormanthyr.
During the Tethyrian Interregnum in the mid-14th century DR, a deepspawn known as The One Below laired below the surface of the city of Zazesspur. On Mirtul 3, during a time period known as the Days of Terror, Zaranda Star and her Star Protective Services slew the monster and ended its chaos. It had been allied with the Twisted Rune and a tanarri. After that deepspawns death, a second deepspawn, known as Clusterfang, joined the Rune and took residence under the city in its predecessors place.
thumb|left|300px|Deepspawn and its trolls under Hellgate Keep.In the mid-14 century DR, the mad wizard Radoc had a deepspawn in his forces that helped him to spawn many mongrelfolks, trolls, and other types of monstrous minions. In 1367 DR, having gotten word that his foe Grintharke had fallen, Radoc took the deepspawn and his other forces to assault Hellgate Keep. During this siege the deepspawn crawled underground and hid itself within an underground cave, close to the Chambers Below. After the siege on Hellgate Keep had failed, that deepspawn remained within this cave, sparingly using its forces against the Keeps ruler, Kaanyr Vhok, and rallying his forces against him. Its actions soon came to the attention of the cambion, who proceeded to engage in many negotiations with the deepspawn that were half-hearted, for neither was willing to be subservient to the other. Some time after the Keeps destruction in 1369 DR, Vhok and his men slew the deepspawns minions, injured it, and stole its accumulated treasures before caving in its lair. The deepspawn managed to survive this, subsisting off of spiders, worms, and the trolls it would spawn.
During the mid-to-late 14 century DR, a business called Hired Horrors in Skullport began selling deepspawn for ten thousand gold pieces each. This operation was run by a cabal of four wizards&mdashAurin the Generous, Chantos Graybeard, Ysele the Cat, and Lord Ithvar Wordkiller&mdashwho had figured out how to breed the deepspawn. Their operation catered to clientele looking to stock dungeons with monsters, and was capable of transporting deepspawn to anywhere on Toril.
By the 1370s DR, the Zhentarim had begun abducting deepspawn and placing them along the caravan routes used by their merchant rivals.
Some claimed that a deepspawn dwelled within the jungle of Jundarwood, though throughout Faerûnian history deepspawn were often a source of blame for strange happenings.
Some hunters and sages in the Border Kingdoms voiced suspicion that Bloutarrans had installed a deepspawn within a cave in the forest north of their town as it seemed that those townspeople always came back from a stag hunt with two or more prizes in hand.
Around 1479 DR, it was rumored that the farmer Nars Thormil, who lived near Wheloon in Cormyr, used a deepspawn he had captured to duplicate thimdrors and sell them to the best eateries in Saerloon and other nearby settlements.
thumb|250px|Beautiful Flower, a deepspawn who resided in the Crypt of Orbakh.
*Beautiful Flower, a deepspawn that had been residing in the Crypt of Orbakh in Myth Drannor for centuries by 1369 DR, endlessly spawning creatures inside the tomb creating a mini-ecosystem.
*Clusterfang, a deepspawn who forged an alliance with the Twisted Rune in Calimshan and was active across the Lands of Intrigue during the mid-to-late 14 century DR.
*The One Below, Clusterfangs predecessor in the mid&ndash14 century DR.