Delphons, also known as songsharks, were an intelligent shark-like species of fish endemic to the River Oceanus that crooned powerful mind-affecting melodies.
These creatures had sleek, shark-like bodies measuring  on average, complete with streamlined heads with wide mouths full of sharp teeth. Their fins were long and powerful. The average delphon had silvery skin, though some had brilliant red, deep blue, or vibrant green colorations. Their bodies were often decorated with beautiful, complicated designs, made by rubbing themselves against sharp rock formations along the sides of the River Oceanus.
These intelligent creatures were gifted with great knowledge and understanding of the River Oceanuss many secrets and of its multidimensional nature.
The songs of the delphons were utterly alien and mysterious, rich with meaning, that had profound spell-like effects on any creature that heard them. Non-intelligent creatures could be so enamored by the melodies they became charmed for one to ten hours, whilst for intelligent creatures this was only one of many effects the melodies could have on them.
Intelligent listeners could be so spellbound, their bodies became rigidly paralyzed for around 3 to 10 minutes. Those unable to handle the utter alieness of the delphons melodies could enter a state of confusion for 3 to 18 minutes or could have their mind shatter into unconsciousness for 3 to 30 minutes. For those listeners who succumbed to the songs, yet were capable of grasping their true meaning, the mind was gifted with some form of knowledge about either Oceanus, the relationships between the planes (particularly those the River Oceanus touched), or on places that were on or around the river.
Their profound planar understanding of Oceanus allowed delphons to navigate its waters in such a way that they could effectively shift their bodies to other planes along the river, even taking other creatures with them. They sometimes utilized this to avoid attacks.
Delphons fought in much the same way as sharks, using their powerful jaws and tails.
Being very sociable creatures, delphons typically traveled in clannish packs that were usually made up of relatives and individuals occasionally associated with other clans. These clans lacked any sort of authority, giving all members equal say and rights
Delphons were a carnivorous species, living off the abundancy of fish within the River Oceanus. Due to this abundancy, it was quite rare for them to ever attack drylanders.
These creatures could be found in the River Oceanus, which traveled through all the layers of Elysium, as well as where the river passed through the planes of Arborea and the Beastlands.
Delphons were known to act as servants of the elven deity of the sea Deep Sashelas. They also had a great affinity with the deity Stillsong, who roamed the River Oceanus, with many not being far behind wherever he went.