Derro ( . They often suffered nausea while in sunlight.
Their bodies were typically quite dexterous.
Derro were typically known to wield repeating light crossbows with poison-laced arrows, hooked fauchards, daggers, spears, and aklys.
Legend had it that the derro originally lived on the surface of Faerûn. But they opened portals to the Far Realm, which offended the World Serpent, who cast the derro into the Underdark.
There were other conflicting legends of how the derro came to be. The duergar believed that the derro were another dwarf clan that was long held by mind flayers, which resulted in the madness that afflicted them. The derro themselves all told oft-changing variations of the myth of their god all versions shared a common focus on his stealing of magic from a great evil to help the derro survive through their ideals of deceit and cruelty.
Outside of their origins, there were a few rumors that claimed they ate human flesh.
The derro were a strange and sadistic race. While clever and stealthy, they were also murderously insane. It was very common for derro to devote themselves to some strange quest, such as collecting only certain types of gemstones or slaying as many members of a particular race as possible. Some derro were assigned specific missions by powerful derro savants, with the possibility that they might even join a company of comrades to fulfill some irrational goal.
Derro bands survived the challenges of the Underdark only thanks to their intense paranoia and the sorcerous powers of their leaders.
Derro were widespread, likely to be found in and throughout the Underdark. Some had colonies beneath the Savage North. There were also derro warrens within duergar cities, like Gracklstugh, but such derro were treated as a disrespected underclass.
Beyond Toril, derro could be found on a number of worlds due to magical travel, including Oerth. The world of Krynn was one not known to have any true instances of derro on it, though one of Krynns endemic dwarven subraces was noted as being rather similar.
Most derro revered the god Diirinka, but very few became actual clerics. Instead, Diirinkas blessing was considered manifest in the sorcery of their many savants.
* Buppido, a cunning and insane killer who believed himself to be the incarnation of the derro god Diinkarazan.
* Droki, a courier who worked for the Grey Ghost thieves guild in Gracklstugh.