A deva () was a kind of angel, or aasimon.While 1-, 2-, and 3-edition sources presented three subtypes of deva, the 5-edition Monster Manual presents just a simple "deva", resembling the movanic deva, that combines a few traits of the previous three. Moreover, the astral deva Lumalia in Dead in Thay was changed to simply a deva in Tales from the Yawning Portal, with the same statistics as the one in the Monster Manual, greatly simplified from those in earlier editions. Its unclear if this represents a generic deva or summary of deva lore, or if the three orders have been somehow merged or erased in the century since 3 edition (4 edition deva being very different), or if a later source will restore this detail. The 5-edition lore is included in this article.
Devas appeared as human-like men and women of extraordinary beauty or handsomeness with two magnificent feathered wings emerging from their shoulders.The appearances of devas have been switched with each edition. In 1st edition, in Dragon #63, monadic devas have a silvery-white coloration and muscular builds, while movanic devas have a coppery, rosy coloration. Monster Manual II omits a description of the movanic deva. However, in 2nd edition, in Monstrous Compendium Planescape Appendix, movanic devas have the silvery-white coloration and slender build, while monadic devas have muscular builds and a new dark coloration, while the coppery, rosy coloration is lost. In v.3.5, in Fiend Folio, movanic devas are the same and monadic devas retain the dark coloration but are not explicitly given the muscular build. Astral devas, meanwhile, remain consistent through these sources, but artwork for Monster Manual v.3.5 gives a dark coloration while not expressly describing hair or skin color in text. This article uses the consistent combined descriptions of the later 2nd- and 3.5-edition sources.
Devas were averse to clothing when they must adhere to mortal custom, they donned simple loincloths or other coverings.
When a deva died, all parts of their body, what clothes they wore, their weapons, and their other possessions vanished completely, and thus none were ever examined closely.
Devas shared the devotion to goodness of the other angels. They were strong-willed and fearless.
There were three varieties or orders of devas the astral devas, the monadic devas, and the movanic devas.
They usually worked alone, but also operated in pairs, trios,
Devas were servants and messengers of the good gods, able to go wherever in the planes they were ordered. However, they often had to be proactive and deliver their messages at the points of their swords, and, indeed, preferred it. Thus, they were also mighty warriors in the battle against evil, wherever in the multiverse it appeared. summon monster, gate, or planar ally spell. Only rarely did they act on their own initiative, but when they did, it invariably involved righteous violence. Only astral devas were able to travel astrally. The devas could operate more-or-less equally well in any environment, even in water.
Each order of devas had a different role in the grand scheme of the Upper Planes.
The privileged movanic devas traveled to the Prime Material Plane to aid prominent followers of the gods of good in times of great need. While they more often appeared disguised as humanoids or animals, they could manifest in their winged angelic form if this suited their needs.
In the late 15 century DR, devas were sent as agents to the Material Plane, the Feywild, and the Shadowfell.
Whatever realm or plane they were sent to, devas used their shapechanging powers to adopt a suitable guise, usually appearing to mortals as an unremarkable animal or humanoid. In particular, when at peace among mortals, movanic devas more often appeared in disguise as humanoids or animals, and rarely in their natural forms. There were legends of devas that spent years dwelling among mortals in disguise, helping and inspiring the good people around them.
Some devas acted as angelic guides to mortal aasimar, appearing to them in visions and offering wise direction.
Within the Great Wheel cosmology, the devas were known to dwell in the Upper Planes, those Outer Planes that were aligned with good, namely Arborea, Arcadia, the Beastlands, Bytopia, Elysium, Mount Celestia, and Ysgard, where a few dwelt.
right|An astral deva (front) with a planetar (middle) and a solar (back).
The devas served the gods of good as their proxies and served the cause of goodness itself.  They were far from the most powerful entities on the Upper Planes, but their might was not to be disregarded either.
Devas of all kinds were known to serve the deities Azuth, Ilmater, and Mystra, while movanic devas in particular served Deneir, Lliira, and Milil.
They served as the common soldiery in the armies of good in the eternal war against evil. They were a fundamental component of the forces of good, forming a reliable and strong vanguard of the Upper Planes, alongside the agathinon. They dwelled and worked in total harmony with the other beings of the Upper Planes, and had a close relationship with other aasimon, especially planetars. On occasion, when the need was great, a planetar would lead a band of devas on a mission for a good deity.
Devas possessed all the powers, protections, and traits common to the aasimon
All devas were initially reported to use the spells cure disease and cure serious wounds thrice a day cure light wounds, detect traps, and dispel magic each seven times a day heal once a day and detect evil, detect illusion, detect magic, etherealness, know alignment, invisibility and invisibility, 10 radius, light (varying with the kind of deva), protection from evil (varying with the deva), read magic, remove curse, remove fear, teleport (without error), tongues, and ultravision, as often as they willed. They also had a constant infravision in place. Later, this list was given as cure disease thrice a day cure light wounds, detect snares and pits, and dispel magic each seven times a day heal once a day and detect lie, invisibility, 10 radius, light, protection from evil, remove curse, remove fear, and tongues as often as they willed. They also had a constant infravision in place.
Before and after 1358 DR, they were known to be all immune to injury from cold, electricity, gases, natural fire, non-magical weapons, and magic missile. They could not be petrified or poisoned. Astral and movanic devas were resistant to magical fires, while monadic devas were completely immune.
All orders of deva had the power to change their own form at will, either through the spell polymorph self, This last let them change form into a small or medium humanoid or into an animal. If killed, they reverted to their true form.
When a deva died on the Prime Material plane or the Elemental planes, all parts of their body, what clothes they wore, their weapons, and their other possessions vanished completely. Only their material body was destroyed, while their immortal spirit returned to their home plane. It took ten years to regain the power to manifest a corporeal form. If they died on any other plane, then they were destroyed utterly.
An astral deva.
Although they might use many different weapons, each order of deva commonly wielded a specific weapon a disrupting mace for the astral deva, a smiting mace or rod for the monadic deva, and a flaming two-handed sword for the movanic deva. They had no need of any treasure or wealth, though might still carry useful items.
In the late 15 century, any weapon wielded by a deva was radiantly magical. They preferred very large maces,
In 1369 DR, a group of six astral and monadic devas, led by the deva Ariziel, was dispatched to capture the Winged, a dark planetar cast out from Celestia for failing Torm. The devas could not overcome the Winged, and found themselves captured in turn. They were turned into fallen devas and forced to fight in the gladiatorial arena of the Wingeds master, the Thayan wizard Dennaton, where they eventually perished.
Lumalia, an astral deva servant of Mystra.
See CategoryDevas
* Lumalia, a servant of Mystra held prisoner within the Doomvault for centuries.
* Micus and Tauran, high-ranking servants of Tyr.
* Eirwyn, a servant of Helm and skilled diviner.
* The Sannyasi, appointed by the Serene Abhirati to watch over her realm of Langdarma in the Yehimal Mountains. He had served in this role for 10,000 years by the 14 century DR.