Dinosaurs, also known as thunderers, behemoths (|audio=Behemoth1.ogg ), or garuda, were a group of ancient reptilian creatures found on Toril. They were considered agents and children of the Chultan deity Ubtao, though some of them had turned rogue to serve his enemy Eshowdow.
Dinosaurs came in many shapes and sizes, though, as the name "behemoth" implied, the best known were typically very large. They could be either herbivorous or carnivorous, depending on the species. Unlike dragons, dinosaurs were incapable of speech and were non-intelligent by nature.
Dinosaurs came in many varieties, from small to large, but most shared a number of physical features. They were, for instance, all covered in a layer of pebble-like skin. Most also demonstrated a well-developed sense of smell, which predatory behemoths used to hunt.  Many were also herbivorous.
right|270px|Troglodytes and their pet behemoth.
It was widely believed by scholars from Candlekeep that dinosaurs existed in Toril since before the time period known as the Days of Thunder. In those ancients times, various species of dinosaur thrived until a cataclysm changed the world so drastically that most of them went extinct.
Sages from Candlekeep didnt have a unified theory about the nature of the catastrophe. The most commonly accepted theory proclaimed this catastrophe was the Tearfall, while detractors of this theory believed that the sun temperatures diminished to a degree that produced a global climatic change so harsh that only the smallest dinosaurs were able to survive. A lunatic sage even proclaimed the cataclysm was actually a war between the gods and their enemies.
Whatever the truth, only a handful of dinosaurs, among them the proto-dragons, were able to survive and evolve into the members of the species that existed in the present age.
There were multiple species of dinosaur, some of which are listed below, alongside other similar reptilian beasts.
 Allosaurus
A large, strong, fast predator. It used its claws to pin down its prey.
Altispinax
A strong carnivorous creature that could be confused with stegosaurus due to their bone spines. They were an elusive species but could be found in Chultan swamps.
Anatotitan
A species of herbivorous dinosaur with a duck-like mouth, they were timid and easily frightened.
Ankylosaurus
Also known as macetail behemoths. Armored herbivores that had either knobbed or spiked tail tips that they used to defend from predators. Extremely territorial dinosaurs.
Brachiosaurus
Massive herbivores that resemble brontosaurus, but are much larger and with a bump on their heads.
Brontosaurus
Massive herbivores that used their tails as whips to defend from predators.
Ceratosaurus
A large, carnivorous variety of dinosaur marked by a horn-like ridge along its snout.
Deinonychus
Small, predatory dinosaurs roughly the size of humans that were highly social.
Dimetrodon
Medium-sized predators with sailed backs.
Elasmosaurus
An aquatic reptile roughly fifty feet in length, much of which was from its extremely long neck and serpentine tail.
Hadrosaurus
Herbivores with bony head crests that could walk as quadrupeds or as bipeds. They could be raised to work as mounts.
Iguanodon
Herbivores who have spikes on their thumbs, they could walk either as quadrupeds or bipeds.
Megaraptor
Superficially similar to deinonychus, though much larger, megaraptors were notable for their large hand claws.
Monoclonius
Herbivores who resemble triceratops, however with only one horn.
Plesiosaurus
Marine carnivorous reptiles with compact bodies and long necks.
Pteranodon
An enormous flying reptile that fed primarily on fish.
Quetzalcoatlus
Giant flying reptiles, related to the pteranodon.
Stegosaurus
Also known as bloodspike behemoths. Herbivorous dinosaurs marked by large plates resting along their spine and a notoriously bad temper.
Styracosaurus
Herbivores who resemble triceratops, however with only one horn and a spiked frill.
Triceratops
Short-tempered and aggressive even for a herbivore, triceratops were recognizable by their three horns and armored head.
Tyrannosaurus Rex
 Among the largest predatory dinosaurs, tyrannosaurus was both a predator and a scavenger.
Velociraptor
Small feathered predators that hunted in packs for larger prey.