Disir were unsightly slime-covered creatures found in the subterranean depths of Underdarks overpopulated areas, led by a disir queen.
An average disir stood between  and , weighting around . The creature spent most of their lives hunched over, appearing shorter than their true height. Disir bodies were partially protected by natural chitinous armor while leaving parts of the rubbery green-white skin exposed. Disir constantly secreted green slime from the pores, coating their bodies in a gel-like substance. The slime collected dirt, dead flesh, and other rubbish in the wild, bringing forth a strong stench of decay.
The disir species did not have sexual dimorphism, making males and females appear virtually identical.
The slime that coated disirs body and claws was poisonous but not deadly and when introduced into an open wound, caused immense pain. The infection of burning pain spread from the wound, and its intensity paralyzed affected muscles. The same thick poisonous coating protected the creatures from fire.
thumb|A slimy disir.
Disirs bite and claws were its main weapon however, some were known to use weapons. These creatures preferred to rent their opponents with claws and only use bites to finish off enemies or to kill defenseless prey. Disir claws were powerful enough to crush stone, and their terrifying protruding jagged fangs, as well as razor-sharp tongues that had the texture of a rasp, were perfectly suitable to separate living flesh from bone.
Disir colonies were rarely seen by inhabitants of Toril. Their communities had a tribal structure. Each tribe consisted of fifty or more closely associated disir, and more than one tribe could inhabit the same area. It was believed that disir tribes never came into conflict. However, they saw all other creatures and humanoids as food sources. Despite their high intelligence, disir never allied or negotiated with other species.
Disir were egg-laying species that changed their sex as they moved through life. Disir had a matriarchal society. Those disir who were in their female phase were the dominant individuals within the tribe. All duties were shared between the tribes adults, including maternal tasks of nurturing and guarding tribe incubators where the disir eggs were laid, as well as disir larval young. Raids and hunts were done by all adults as well, and the food and other loot recovered from such raids were equally distributed among the tribe members. However, those adults who were unable to perform all of the tasks were killed.
Tribes were led by a disir queen and some had elite warriors, rogues, and shamans. Disir spoke their own language and could speak Common. Some also were known to speak Dwarvish, Goblin, or Ogrish.
Disir could be found many miles under the planets surface and were territorial creatures that felt uncontrollable hatred for all other creatures. Disir dug through their territory, leaving veering tunnels behind however, more often than not, disir claimed homes and lair of others as their habitats. Due to shared terrain, disir were an enemy of tunneling creatures and cultures, such as dwarves and drow.
Despite being omnivorous creatures, disir preferred the taste of meat. They consumed fresh kills and rotting spoiled meat with equal delight. Among plant matter consumed with disir, mushrooms were the main food group. Knowledgeable subterranean travelers could detect disir presence by sterile dead remains the hunting parties left behind.
It took disir ten years to reach adulthood and the male stage of their lives. About half of these males later matured into females, ready for the breeding cycle or to take the queens title. An average male lived for 30 years, while a queen could reach 60 years.
On Toril, disir inhabited the Underdark, where they tended to be left alone by the drow, who were too busy bickering and warring with eachother to turn against less common species found living nearby. Disir were more commonly found on the world of Krynn, On Krynn, disir were able to produce a slow-witted tyin offshoot who were adjusted to living on the surface.
Disir were among species that could cross-breed with certain types of dragons, producing disir hybrids.
Disir slime consul not be bottled to be used for its poisonous properties as it lost potency swiftly after being secreted and exposed to air.