Dobies were a rare race of small, humanoid fey related to brownies.
Much like brownies, dobies bore a resemblance to elves, had brown eyes, and brown hair. But unlike brownies, their ears were only slightly pointed. They typically wore drab, tough rural workmen-like clothing.
Dobies were rather reclusive and inoffensive creatures, preferring to walk or sneak away from combat rather than engage in it. Much like brownies, they felt obligated to do a good deed for the farmers they stole food from, such as guarding treasure or doing household chores.
It was difficult to offend dobies, due in part to them being largely oblivious to insults. Whenever their landlord discovered their presence and berated them for the mishaps they tended to cause, dobies were very likely to misconstrue the criticism as a complaint regarding the amount of work being done. Thus they would make an effort to redouble their efforts.
Like many fey creatures, dobies possessed an innate potential for spellcasting. The spells they typically employed revolved around causing confusion and distractions. These spells most often consisted of the following confuse languages, grease, forget, fumble, and ray of enfeeblement.
Unlike some fey creatures, dobies were particularly gullible, making it easy to fool them with  charms and illusions.
In terms of weaponry, dobies were typically known to wield makeshift weapons or tools, such as hammers or hoes. They were rather inexperienced in the use of standard weaponry, such as daggers and shortswords.
Dobies were a race of strict vegetarians. Much like brownies, following any harvest dobies would gather grains, fruits, and vegetables that would otherwise go wasted. Though they were far less efficient in how they went about this. They also did their part to care for the plants of farmers.
These fey lived in small families within crude cottages made of twigs and hatch, hidden within the thickets at the corner of a farmers fields. They were never known to go so far as living inside their landlords home like brownies did. This was primarily because they believed that the inadvertent damage they tended to cause would lead their landlord to think they were being haunted by a poltergeist.
Due to their reclusive nature, dobies never revealed themselves to their landlords. Thus they only came out to perform the household chores they felt obligated to do while their landlords were away or at night while they slept. However, they almost always managed to botch these chores in some manner. They were also highly protective of their landlords families and goods, thus they would always try to fend off intruding thieves and hostile creatures.
Dobies were typically found in rural areas with a temperate climate.
Dobies primarily spoke in the same language of brownies, though they also typically knew Common and the language of one other fey, such as the pixie language or the sprite language.
Dobies were a favored monster of the deities Arvoreen, Brandobaris, Cyrrollalee, Sheela Peryroyl, and Yondalla.
Priests of Erevan Ilesere were capable of assuming the form of a dobie through use of the spell faerie form.