Dolphins were a peaceful species of aquatic mammal plentiful in the waters of Abeir-Toril.
Dolphins were a highly intelligent species. They were even intelligent enough that, with some training and divine inspiration, they could become priests of some deities.
In addition to their eyes, dolphins viewed their surroundings by means of echolocation. A natural process of sending out an array of soundwaves that were reflected back as three-dimensional representations of their surroundings.
Dolphins were generally capable of carrying or pulling around  without becoming encumbered. The heaviest load they were capable of moving was around .
Dolphins were a rather peaceful species and generally would only attack if they or their young were threatened. When engaging in combat dolphins acted as organized units, taking commands from a central leader. In some cases they were willing to sacrifice their lives to protect the rest of their pod.
About 10% of dolphins were known to live in organized communities with other species, such as swordfish and narwhals, and would actively work to drive evil creatures out of their territory. Such areas also tended to be devoid of sharks and killer whales,
In Faerûn, dolphins could be found in the Sea of Fallen Stars, particularly the first  depths. They were one of the most populous creatures to inhabit it.
Beyond Toril, there existed a single species of dolphin on the planet Athas and schools of dolphins on the planet Karpri that both possessed innate telepathy. Those on the planet Athas were additionally all psionic wild talents, but didnt have the discipline for formal study of full psionics.
Beyond the material plane, dolphins could be found in the River Oceanus.
Dolphins communicated in a series of clicks and whistles. They could also speak Serusan, as that language was in part an amalgamation of their own.
thumb|The Dance of the Dolphins of the Shining Lands.
Dolphins generally had tight bonds with aquatic elves and their elderly were some of the most respected members of sea elf communities. They rarely interacted with tritons for long periods of time unless they showed some sense of fun.
Some water genasi were known to keep dolphins as pets. They were also commonly found as animal companions of aquatic rangers and bards.
They also held a distant interest in humans and would warn sailors of pirates or other aquatic threats, such as merfolk and sahuagin, and in some cases even come to their aid. They held great enmity towards the sahuagin as a whole, viewing them as a threat, and would often raid their communities and destroy their eggs.
When traveling with a group of aquatic or seafaring adventurers they were known to identify with the group as a whole, rather than any one individual. They were rarely noted as abandoning such groups, even in situations where it meant saving their own lives.
Dolphins were sacred to the elven god Deep Sashelas as well as the deities Istishia, Valkur, and Trishina. Priests of Deep Dashelas were said to have a duty to protect endangered dolphins and were required to have one as a companion in order to rise within the priesthood. However, dolphins were particularly noted as taking up the role of priests for Trishina and had a special section of Thalasia relegated for them by the goddess.
In the , a pod of dolphins saved Volothamp Geddarms life during his voyage from the Sword Coast North to the nation of Samarach. The infamous author sat down to dine on a bowl of poisoned soup but became distracted by nearby dolphins. When the bard returned to his meal, one of the shipmates had already consumed it and died of what was assumed a food poisoning.
* The helm of underwater action had images of dolphins carved into it.
* Some sea elves were known to craft and wear jewelry that was shaped like dolphins.
* Around the Sea of Fallen Stars it was believed that a dolphin swimming alongside a ship was a sign of good luck. Consequently, around that region superstition dictated that killing a dolphin was bad luck.
* They could be found in the Bay of Dancing Dolphins in Dambrath where they could be seen performing the Dance of the Dolphins every evening at dusk. This display would attract spectators from all around Faerûn. The locals thought the dolphins were responsible for the calm waters of the bay. They were allies of the triton that lived in a hidden underwater city.
* A silver statue of a leaping dolphin crowned Dolphins Leap, a temple to Valkur in the city of Velen.
* In the city of Ravens Bluff, Ring Park had a fountain at its heart featuring a dolphin statuary.
* In the city of Waterdeep, the family estates of some noble houses sported a fountain whose water spout was made to resemble a dolphin.