Doomknights (or doom knights) were undead corruptions of previously righteous paladins.
These undead were human-sized and visibly muscular. They seemed to be skinless in many places however, how much skin was missing varied. Some body parts had their epidermis or dermis missing, while others had muscles exposed. These deformations looked like they were inflicted by burns or through skinning. Doomknights wore armor and a helmet made of an animal or monsters skull. It is possible that this helmet wasnt a helmet but a skeletal body party around their head. They had glowing orange eyes.
While doomknights were always chaotic evil, before a paladin was transformed into a doomknight, they had to be a previously righteous individual that fell from grace.
Doomknights had high strength and resilience, an inherent minor resistance to spells and the ability to shrug off weak attacks and reduce damage from powerful blows. They possessed darkvision. A doom knight could use magic similar to dispel magic, fireball, power word, stun, and see invisibility, which they could do one to three times a day depending on the ability. They were able to create an aura of fear around themselves, which forced weak-minded opponents to flee from their proximity. Like many other undead, doomknights were immune to death magic, mind-affecting spells, paralysis, and poison. Because of an inherent strong alertness, doomknights were harder to ambush.
A doomknight engaging in combat with penguins.
These undead almost exclusively used greatswords and heavy armor in combat. They were however proficient with all types of martial weapons. While fighting multiple opponents, doomknights were able to perform quick strikes against a new opponent after downing one. When fighting in groups, doomknights were often led by doomknight commander, which, in addition to the abilities of standard doomknights, could create a blade barrier. Doomknights used their available magic when fighting.
Doomknights followed a simple militaristic structure, where they were led by commanders when in groups. When in groups or alone they were almost always aggressive on sight. Necromancers and blackguards that summoned doomknights via the create greater undead spell or create undead ability, respectively, could expect them to follow easy commands. Doomknights sometimes took control over lands.
Around the 1370s DR, one could occasionally encounter these undead all over the Sword Coast North in burial places or in the service of necromancers. Around the same time period, by using the spell Tensers transformation, an individual could take on a form similar to an elven doomknight.
Doomknights could either be found alone or in small to medium groups. They were almost always aggressive on sight. Some of the ways of creating a doomknight were using the create undead ability of blackguards or the create greater undead spell.