A doom guard was a golem-like construct that was created via a unique magical process.
Doom guards appeared as animated suits of armor made for humanoids, though the armor style may have been different for different doom guards. Some believed that they were undead beings, though this was false.
There were dwarven variants of doom guards, which were created from dwarven armor instead of that made for taller humanoids.
These automatons could not speak. However, they were able to obey commands, such as to protect a ruined castle from invaders.
Doom guards attacked with whatever weapons they had available to them, usually bludgeoning weapons, axes, or swords.
The constructs had a suite of immunities and resistances to help them in battle. Like other constructs, they could not be affected by mind magic, so could not be put to sleep, held, or charmed. As they were not living, they were also not affected by cause blindness, inflict wounds, or poisons. In addition to this, they were resistant to cold-based and fire-based spells. However, they were very susceptible to spells such as transmute metal to wood and crystalbrittle, both of which were fatal to any doom guard.
The dwarven versions of these constructs appeared to be specifically "crafted", and were somewhat more accurate in combat.
Unlike golems, doom guards were made by specific magic objects, anvils of darkness. It was not a trivial process to create these magical anvils, and required items such as scarabs versus golems. Once completed, experienced smiths could use these anvils to create a doom guard. This process took about a third of a day, and could not be interrupted. However, the magic of this anvil was not unlimited, and would only regain its power once every twenty weeks.
273px|A doom guard protects whatever lies beyond the staircase.
These unnatural creatures did not have any nautral interactions with creatures, unless commanded to.
Once created, doom guards were mainly commanded to protect castles and ruins. They were found in these such places across Faerûn and the Demiplane of Dread, including Castle Ravenloft itself. Specifically in the Western Heartlands, doom guards were deployed by their owners to lurk in
* Durlags Tower
* The Thieves Maze of Baldurs Gates thieves guild
* Degrodels home within Baldurs Gate
Dwarven doom guards were also found in Durlags Tower, where they were specifically ordered to order the tomb of Kiel the Legion Killer, Durlag Trollkillers son.