Doppelgangers, otherwise known by themselves as Shallar, were monstrous humanoids, infamous for their shapeshifting abilities that allowed them to mimic almost any humanoid creature. There was also a stronger, more capable subspecies known as greater doppelgangers or mirrorkin.
In their true form, doppelgangers appeared as tall, elf-like, gray-skinned humanoids, whose thin hairless bodies made them appear, to human eyes, sexless. Their heads were bulbous, with formless faces and bulging eyes that were a pale yellow hue and lacked visible pupils. Though even this form was deceptive, as it gave the impression they were physically weak, when in fact they were quite strong and agile.
They were lazy but cunning creatures, who killed or disposed of people then assumed their place. While not actually evil, doppelgangers were extremely self-centered and liable to look down on their victims. Because of their laziness and selfishness, they rarely ever had any interest in raising their young.
thumb|304x304px|A doppelganger in service of Gornak, shapeshifting out of his human disguise.
Doppelgangers could assume shapes of any humanoid creatures between  in height. After they chose their victim they duplicated the victims form, clothing, and equipment, and attempted to kill the original. The biggest boon for the doppelgangers was the confusion their shapeshifting caused.
These shapeshifters were immune to many mind affecting spells, such as sleep and charm spells. They also possessed a continuous spell-like ability to detect the thoughts of their victims and opponents, which some described as being a form of ESP. This ability extended out  and could penetrate most  barriers. These would often use this ability to learn everything they could about their chosen target.
Though their abilities allowed them to physically impersonate other creatures, a normal doppelganger could not duplicate the languages, memories, mannerisms, or personality of their victims. Because of this they sometimes kept the original alive and close by for weeks when their plans were more long-term. While captured a victims mind would be read daily by a doppelganger in order to learn how to best behave and speak without being detected.
Being shapeshifting creatures, doppelgangers preferred to surprise and ambush their opponents. Once engaged in close quarters combat, a doppelganger would use their brute strength to slam opponents around.
thumb|304px|A pair of doppelgangers.
Doppelgangers tended to be solitary creatures, though were also known to operate in small groups as part of longer cons, as doing so further ensured that their infiltration and attacks were successful. Many lived a stolen life. When they encountered a person whose appearance or station they desired for themselves, the doppelganger used their mental powers to learn everything they could about the chosen target. Once they had all the knowledge they needed, they quietly eliminated or captured their target and assumed his or her form, taking their place in life.
Doppelgangers were highly feared by most races for their ability to assume the form of any humanoid creature they encountered. Knowledge of their presence tended to make people very paranoid and suspicious of others. 
Whenever food or treasure were scarce they would work for other creatures, though they preferred doing business with the magically inclined. Many beings throughout the Realms were known to utilize them as spies, assassins, or in elaborate plots to usurp power.
Doppelgangers could only reproduce while in the form of a human, with another human they lacked reproductive organs in their true form. Doppelgangers looked completely human at birth (though certain organs functioned differently), and remained in a human form during childhood and adolescence, during which time they were left to be raised by humans this was sometimes compared to how cuckoos left their eggs in the nests of other birds. Upon reaching maturity, however, they changed and their minds were "filled with an awareness of what they were".
Sometimes, however, a lone doppelganger lost itself and permanently assumed another identity. In such cases where the doppelganger had also taken up a romantic partner, the offspring that resulted were known as half-doppelgangers. Like doppelgangers, they were born in the form of their non-doppelganger parent however, that remained their normal form throughout their lives, and they had more limited abilities compared to full doppelgangers.
They were believed to be an artificial race, created by the Creator Race known as the batrachi to serve as spies and assassins. Per other scholars, doppelgangers were closely related to humans and may have originated as magically-altered individuals of that species.
In the , the trading company Seven Sunss headquarters in Baldurs Gate was infiltrated and taken over by doppelgangers, working on behalf of the rival organization Iron Throne. The doppelgangers then proceeded to make poor business decisions that drove the coster toward bankruptcy. This affected the economy of the whole city and attracted the attention of the Grand Dukes.
In the , a group of doppelgangers infiltrated a wedding ceremony between Piergeiron the Paladinson and Eidola of Neverwinter in Waterdeep, posing as guards and handmaidens. Khelben "Blackstaff" Arunsun foiled the monsters sinister plot but failed to stop Eidolas subsequent abduction.
Individuals
* Bonnie, the leader of a doppelganger gang who worked as a barmaid in the Yawning Portal in the late 15 century DR.
* Cheg
* Hlaavin the half-illithid leader of an autonomous druuth in ChChitl.
* Jacob the doppelganger that replaced Jacob during the rescue mission to the Utter East on behalf of Piergeiron the Paladinson in the 14 century DR. 
Groups
* The Unseen was a group of shapeshifters, including many doppelgangers, that operated in Waterdeep.