Dracohar were humanoid creatures resembling humans with the heads of red dragons. They inhabited several mountains of West and interior Faerûn.
Considered somewhere between human and dragonborn, and sexually compatible with both, dracohar resembled humans with red-dragon heads.
The blood of dracohar was valuable to alchemists, as it could be used as a component for a number of alchemical items.
Most dracohar could breathe fire, though rumors circulated of those with different breath weapons.
Though their personalities were varied, pervading stereotypes about dracohar made them out to be patient, composed, and secretive.
Dracohar lived in mountain caves and fortifications, with clans consisting of up to eight families, competing primarily with orcs for territory. They supplemented their primarily hunter-gatherer lifestyle with herds of livestock kept in valleys and the cultivation of alpine plants and edible cave fungi.
Wines and liqueurs were enjoyed by dracohar, though they were particularly resistant to the effects of inebriation, only becoming drunk at a point far beyond human tolerance.
According to the Guide to the Peoples of Amn, a work by the sage Imbur Andrammath on what he considered non-pureblood humans living in Amn, the dracohar originated from the western Orsraun Mountains, where the wizard Kelkur the Mad was attempting to create a breed of servitor dragons. Considered to be one of his few successes, the dracohar were bound to the vale the reclusive Kelkur called home until the wizards death, keeping the area clear of orcs and hobgoblins. Their creator performed many alchemical experiments on them, attempting to replicate their breath weapon for himself, but progress on this was cut short when Kelkur tried to extend his own life to have more time to work on his disparate projects, with the attempt claiming his life.
With the dracohar no longer being bound to Kelkurs vale, they spread north and west from their point of origin, and by the 1430s DR theyd inhabited the mountains of central Faerûn for over a century.
Although he told his followers otherwise, the bandit leader known as the Dread Hood was believed to be a dracohar.