edition]]
Dragonflesh golems, or simply drolems, were hideous golems made from the bodies of true dragons.
These constructs were created from various body parts of dragons, rotting but crudely stitched together to fashion a whole dragon with a patchwork hide.
Drolems had the ability to remember more complex commands than typical golems, but still werent able to think for themselves and would obey their commands to the letter. In some cases, a drolem even killed its creator because of a too-complex or ambiguous command that allowed such an action.
True dragons would destroy these constructs on sight and afterward the dragon would go after its creator to take revenge for this crime against dragonkind.
A drolem did in fact have a pair of wings and with them the ability to fly through the air, but only poorly. They also could not run.
Like other golems, drolems were immune to magic and were even healed by electricity spells like lightning bolt. A drolem didnt have the magical ability or breath weapon of a true dragon, but they still bore the true dragons frightful presence. They also had blindsight, enabling them to detect any objects and/or creatures within  through their other senses.
They attacked with their tails, claws, and wings.
The creator of a dragonflesh golem needed to be able to cast high-level arcane spells and needed to be in possession of a whole dragon corpse or parts from multiple dragons from which they could fashion a whole dragon.
Assembling the drolem required great skill in natural sciences and medicine. To complete the ritual to animate it, the creator needed to cast geas/quest, limited wish, and polymorph any object spells. The whole process cost 200,000 gp and was draining on the creator.
A Drolem guarded the entrance to Synod, it was created from various pieces from dragons and borne the mark of Cult of the Dragon on its chest, altough this mark was a ruse because this drolem was created by the Phaerimm and the cult would find a drolem to be an abomination Greg A. Vaughan, Thomas M. Reid, and Skip Williams (November 2007) Anauroch The Empire of Shade (Wizards of the Coast) ISBN 978-0-7869-4362-3.