Dweomervores were an odd species of magic-eating dragon.
Dweomervores were draconic in form, with pale blue scales and amber eyes. The tail was muscular, prehensile, and covered in numerous small bards both the claws and the tail barbs of dweomervores were jet black in color. They were about  long, with most of that length being the tail. They had a relatively short neck, and the mouth was full of small, sharp teeth. The head was covered in bony ridges. The forelegs were unusually dextrous.
Dweomervores were secretive and deceptive, intolerant of their own kind, and, unfortunately, inclined to take positions of power in criminal organizations, though they held no loyalty to their minions.
Dweomervores, like many other dracoforms, had both darkvision and low-light vision, and were immune to magically-induced sleep and paralysis. Its breathe weapon was shimmering waves of force that had some of the more violent effects of the telekinesis spell. The breathe weapon could effect items and creatures as far away as  and up to  in weight.
Dweomervore also had a natural telkinesis-like ability that allowed to to manipulate and hold objects less than  within . They could manipulate items held such with remarkable skill and dexterity, to the point of being able to pickpocket someone with the ability.
True to their name, a dweomervore could, while biting a charged magical object, consume up to six charges from an object within seconds. This ability did not activate the powers of the item. The magical charges both fed and healed the dweomervore.
Dweomervores themselves could use blur, color spray, daze, detect magic, identify, invisibility, reduce person, see invisibility, obscuring mist, and tongues at will as innate spell-like abilities.
Dweomervores were not violent, more interested in stealing than killing, but if pressed they fought with their magic, their teeth and claws, and the numerous, razor-sharp barbs on the tail. The barbs in particular left wounds that bled easily, weakening those injured.
Dweomervores preferred to live in large, prosperous, magic-rich cities in temperate regions, such as Waterdeep, Bezantur, and Silverymoon. They typically took over as leaders of small thieves guilds for the purposes of gathering charged magic items, though they had little interest in the daily tasks of actually running the guild however, if their guild was compromised, the dweomervore was often the first to escape, and with a large portion of the guilds treasury to boot.
Dweomervores who settled within  of each other typically entered into a long and bitter feud with each other that only ended when one of them was dead or driven away. This intolerance likely stemmed from the relative scarcity of their food source. However, dweomervores enjoyed speaking with other species of dragons, who tended to let the conversation continue as much because of their own enjoyment of the attention, as because it gave them time to protect their own hoarded items.
Wizards were known to have tried to take dweomervores as familiars, but such attempts invariably ended quite quickly, and with the dweomervore making off with the wizards wands and other charged item. Much more rarely, dweomervores were known to work with adventuring parties in exchange for payments in magic items.
Dweomervores had a highly unusual manner of asexual reproduction. They became fertile at the age of fifty, after which one could get pregnant at any time by consuming all of the charges from an item within a ten-minute span. Gestation lasted a tenday, during which time the dweomervore became introverted and uninterested in anything except eating and sleeping a pregnant dweomervore had to consume no less than five charges a day, or they would miscarry the egg and become sterile. Dweomervores typically made hidden nests of charged items ahead of time to sustain themselves. At the end of the pregnancy, the dweomervore would lay a single egg, which hatched after another tenday. The dweomervore parent was then very protective of the hatchling during the tenday it took to reach maturity, after which time the parent drove the offspring away.