| language     = Celestial, Common
| subraces     = 
| climate      = 
| terrain      = 
| genrefs      = 
| height       = 
| length       = 
| weight       = 
| skincolor    = 
| haircolor    = 
| hairstyles   = Mane
| feathers     = 
| eyecolor     = 
| build        = Muscular
| distinctions = Horse-like head, legs, and hand hooves
| appearrefs   = 
| first        = Blood Wars card game
| based        = 
| histrefs     = 
Equinals were large, horse-like guardinals native to the Blessed Fields of Elysium
Equinals were massive humanoid creatures with several of the features of a draft horse, including a horse-like head with long face a crest or mane of long, wild hair that ran from their head to halfway down their back long unguligrade legs ending in hooves and clad in short, bristly hair and hands with thick nails as hard as iron that formed hooves when closed into a fist. They had highly muscular builds, with barrel chests, powerful shoulders, and long arms and stood  or  tall while weighing in at at least .
Champions of goodness and especially of giving evil a good thumping, equinals were generally benevolent, brave, and tenacious but also boisterous and pigheadedly stubborn. They threw themselves enthusiastically into any cause if it meant a chance to go toe-to-hoof against beings of evil and knock them out and when a band of equinals were set on a goal, they would go to incredible lengths to complete it. However, they were so hard to sway they would even ignore new orders from superiors in order to follow through on old orders.
They enjoyed athletic competitions, brawling, and games of physical prowess, and spent hour after hour in such sports. They bragged of their physical abilities and would gladly prove it in challenges and competition. An equinal would hardly ever back down if challenged.
The physically strongest of guardinals, equinals were famed for their incredible strength, usually equal to that of a stone giant or sometimes even a bit better. Their legs were equally powerful, enabling them to run far and fast.
An equinal could also emit a powerful whinny–no mere neigh or whicker, this was an ear-piercing shriek that could leave those who heard it up to  away stunned or deafened for up to half a minute. This could affect either all non-equinals or all non-guardinals and could be done once a minute or once an hour.
They possessed an array of magical powers, being able to command others, conjure a fog cloud, produce light, launch magic missiles, slow their foes, and create a wall of stone. and they could possibly even detect illusions, gain infravision, or aid others.
thumb|right|250px|"Why the long— Never mind." An equinal and a leonal.
With a form of telepathy, guardinals could communicate with almost any being, whether an intelligent, language-using, non-monstrous creature as with tongues or a natural creature as with speak with animals, and could do so without the need to speak aloud.
Like a paladin, an equinal could also lay on hooves to heal others.
They could only be harmed by weapons made of silver or which were enchanted or evil. In turn, their hooves and weapons were weapons of good that could overcome the resistances of fiends.
As guardinals, they enjoyed an array of other protections, including immunities to electricity and petrification and resistances to acid, cold, and poison and against spells. They were immune to being charmed or magically frightened and they were resistant to radiant energy.
When it came to battle, equinals scorned weaponry and favored their own iron-hard, hoof-like fists, and charged into the fray. They would rush headlong at the opponents, often knocking them over. They fought as boxers, delivering crushing uppercuts and jabs that smash stone and dent plate armor as if it was paper. If they couldnt get close, they preferred to throw rocks. An equinal would never stand down, surrender, or flee a fight, no matter how outnumbered or outclassed they were. 
Equinals tended to live in groups more often than other guardinals, as they had a fondness for one anothers company. Such a group comprised up to twelve or eighteen members and was typically termed a band—anyone calling them a herd was liable to be answered by a hoof to the face. They were friendly and welcoming to travelers, but their boisterousness and rough play made it dangerous for outsiders to get involved in equinal activities.
Among the guardinals, equinals were the most common, together with cervidals. When it came time to go to war against the forces of evil, equinals usually served as a heavy infantry. Equinals and cervidals formed the core of any guardinal army. The equinals backed up the front-line lupinal fighters.
thumb|right|250px|Vhara, the Duchess of the Fields.
The ruler of the equinals was Vhara, the Duchess of the Fields. As the strongest and wisest of them, she represented them among the Five Companions that collectively ruled the guardinals.
Among all kinds of guardinals, some equinals served Mystra and Mystryl before her, as well as Solonor Thelandira.
They usually communicated in Celestial and Common.
In the Blessed Fields of Elysium, equinals made their homes in the layer of Amoria, amidst its fields and farmlands. They usually found a nice glen or meadow and dwelled there for a season or so until they departed to seek fresh pastures.
An equinal might be summoned with summon monster VI.