The mischievous faerie dragons came from a branch of the dragon family tree, closely related to pseudodragons. They were intelligent and capable of using language.
Faerie dragons were extremely small in comparison to their large metallic or chromatic dragon cousins&mdashabout the size of a cat. Each had an iridescent coat of scales that reflected all colors of the rainbow, predominantly reflecting one particular color which changed with age. They had a long, prehensile tail and platinum-colored, butterfly-like wings.
Like true dragons, faerie dragons grew stronger with age, but they matured much more quickly and lived shorter lives. Because their predominant scale hue ran the colors of the rainbow over their lifetime, their color was a direct indicator of their age and power. The scales of a young hatchling were almost always red, and those of a fully mature dragon (over 50 years old) were violet.
Like many dragons, they tended to be pranksters, but faerie dragons were especially mischievous. They were often referred to as the pranksters of the wild.
Faerie dragons preferred to deal with predators from a distance, using innate magical abilities to confuse and bewilder. Some could phase in and out of their plane to avoid danger. If seriously pressed, these dragons could strike out with their claws and teeth, but they preferred magic over melee. They rarely fought alone and were often quick to call upon allies when in trouble.
A faerie dragon could exhale a cone of euphoria gas as a breath weapon.
Faerie dragons have inate spellcasting abilites. Some spells came with their age, others were considered favoured spells. These spells include animal growth, animate objects, animate rock, charm monster, color spray, commune with nature, dancing lights, detect magic, distance distortion, entangle, forget, ghost sound, glitterdust, hallucinatory terrain, invisibility, legend lore, limited wish, mage hand, major image, mind fog, minor illusion, mirror image, obscurement, obscuring mist, polymorph, project image, suggestion, summon natures ally IV, unseen servant, ventriloquism, and water breathing.
Faerie dragons normally traveled in groups with pixies, sprites, and other fey creatures.
Faerie dragons often built their lairs high off the ground in the boughs, crotches, and hollows of trees, making them out of any materials they could gather from the forest floor, such as dry grass, leaves, spider silk, twigs, small branches, tree bark, and mud.
Their diet consisted mostly of small bugs caught in the air, from trees and bushes, and off the ground. They also fed on fruits, berries, nectar, and butterflies, which they ate to get the color and look of their wings.
thumb|right|300px|Fluttering faerie dragons and their wizard caretaker.
In the mage kingdom of Halruaa, small gem-colored faerie dragon were favored as exotic pets. In the evenings, rich people of Halarahh could be seen strolling along the Promenade with their pet faerie dragons, tressym, and miniature behirs.
* Jivex
* Newt
* Otto, a faerie dragon who lived in Maddgoths Castle in Undermountain in the late 15 century DR.
* Wishes, a violet faerie dragon who worked at the Pink Flumph theater in Waterdeep in the late 15 century DR.