Fenhounds were a type of magical canine native to the Domains of Dread, manifested by the Dark Powers of that demiplane from the mystical mists that were prevalent throughout it.
Fenhounds resembled mastiffs, having a muscular build and covered in short, coarse brown hair. In addition, an eerie pale yellow light permeated their bodies. They measured roughly  in length.
These creatures had a level of intellect comparable to that of most mundane canines.
Fenhounds could sense and flawlessly track any creature within their habitat that had committed horribly sinful acts. Their howls sent chills down the spine of any living creature that heard them.
They could tap into the ambient, supernatural power that accompanied full moons in this demiplane. One effect of this was the aura of light that surrounded them, which gave them an innate magical resistance and made it so that only weapons with a +2 or greater enchantment could harm them. This power that they tapped into also made it so that fenhounds were unharmed and unhindered by spells from the Sun sphere or those given to priests by gods of the moon, moors, or revenge.
If slain, a fenhounds body dissipated into a cloud of shimmering vapor that would quickly fade away. However, those who dealt the finishing blow to the fenhound were marked with a curse. This would lead them to being hunted by a pack of fenhounds every subsequent night of a full moon. Slaying all within a pack would allow the cursed individual to be safe until the next full moon. Only an atonement or similar spell could fully release someone from a fenhounds curse.
thumb|A fierce fenhound from 300x300px
These creatures charged straight towards their targets, lunging at them with their powerful jaws. They were relentless in the pursuit of their targets and would not hesitate to attack those who blocked their way or tried to protect their target.
Fenhounds acted as avenging spirits of the Domains of Dread, hunting down anyone within their region that they sensed had committed a horribly sinful act. They typically traveled in groups of two or three when tracking down their targets.
Fenhounds were only encountered in the Domains of Dread during a full moon. They were typically found in the demiplanes dark bogs, moors, and swamps. Whenever brought to the Prime Material plane, a fenhound would remain either until dawn or until their target was slain.
Despite not being creatures of an evil disposition,