Ferrous dragons were a type of dragon distinguished typically by the color and composition of their scales, that was like that of various ferrous metals, hence the name. Though they were a mix of good, neutral, and evil, the majority had an evil alignment. Despite them being  the same type of dragon, many hated each other. Ferrous dragons did not have a central deity they worshiped, and instead followed the commands and orders of Gruaghlothor.
Although there were originally 12 ferrous dragon species before the Iron Wars, the following species are the only ones still known to be alive
Chromium dragons
Chromium dragons, also referred to as chrome dragons, were the most evil of ferrous dragons. They were also the most obsessed with treasure of all ferrous dragons. Chrome dragons held a surprising resemblance to silver dragons, which led many adventurers to their doom. Chromium dragons lived in arctic habitats. They breathed a cloud or cone of frozen crystals and a bolt of solid ice.
Cobalt dragons
Cobalt dragons, shunned by their own kind, were lawful evil ferrous dragons. Known for their desire to dominate and sadistic tendencies, cobalt dragons made strikingly good parents. They found their home in deep dark forests and jungles and breathed a line of pure, pulsing magnetic energy.
Iron dragons
Iron dragons were the most powerful ferrous dragons and desired to make dragons the rightful rulers of the world. Being the only neutral ferrous dragons, they were indifferent about metallic dragons. They mainly cared only about knowing the current events of the world, and didnt care for combat. Found in hills or mountains, they breathed a cone of superheated sparks or a cone of sleep gas.
Nickel dragons
Nickel dragons were the weakest and smallest ferrous dragons, though they had a lot of tenacity and viciousness. Usually tried to overwhelm their opponents with ambushes and its unpredictability. Typically found living in swamps and marshlands, they had a corrosive acid breath weapon.
Tungsten dragons
The only good aligned ferrous dragon, tungsten dragons were dedicated to good and nothing else. They viewed metallic dragons as metal in its purest and wanted to ally with them. Tungsten dragons were the most serious ferrous dragons as well, with a no-nonsense attitude. Tungsten dragons most often lived in arid wastelands and deserts, which gave them a blast of sand as a breath weapon.
A very high majority of ferrous dragons are lawful and follow a hierarchy amongst their species created by Gruaghlothor, where the most powerful dragon species has more importance and superiority than others below them. From highest to lowest iron, chromium, cobalt, tungsten, and nickel. Ferrous dragons also have families. A few families can come together to join a clan lead by the most power member. All the clans of a ferrous dragon species are then lead by a greatwyrm, who reports directly to Gruaghlothor.
The tungsten and evil dragons all hate each other, but they must follow Gruaghlothor’s wishes and thus refrain from combat amongst themselves. Because of their current situation, survival of the ferrous dragons is the highest priority and fighting other ferrous dragons isn’t tolerated.
The ferrous dragons all view metallic dragons in different ways. The evil dragons see metallics as abominations they must destroy. Neutral ferrous dragons feel indifferent about metallic dragons, and simply accept their existence. Good aligned ferrous dragons see metallic dragons as the purest form of metal. Despite these views, all ferrous dragons revile chromatic dragons. Gem dragons and ferrous dragons are generally good with each other and get along well, especially with amethyst and emerald dragons.
Ferrous dragons have more iron concentrations in their blood. Thus, they have an innate power to sense metals and are also drawn to them. Some ferrous dragons are even able to subsist completely on metals.
Before Humanoids populated the world and there were only dragons, ferrous dragons were the most powerful and dominant dragon species. A war eventually broke out, still before Humanoids, that would mark ferrous dragons till the end of times. Called the Iron Wars, at least 12 species of ferrous dragons fought for centuries. Two unnamed ferrous dragon species were brought to extinction because of the war. The war ended shortly after the Nickel dragons joining Gruaghlothor’s side. The other 5 ferrous dragons that hadn’t joined their rightful ruler fled after the war ended, their fate unknown. Ferrous dragons oddly stay quiet when asked about them. Postwar, Gruaghlothor put his wishes out that all ferrous dragon must avoid fighting, despite how much they hate each other, should their species continue to exist.
Gruaghlothor - The ruler of all ferrous dragons and the first ferrous dragon to ever exist.