Feywings were a species of flying predatory reptilians that were often confused for dragons
Feywings had bulbous elastic reptilian bodies with three heads atop long necks, a pair of strong bat-like wings, two sets of limbs, and a long dragon-like prehensile tail that allowed them stand upright when needed. Scales covered their hides, but the creatures coloration varied from dark red to blue-black. Most of their round body was taken over by a stomach. Their limbs ended in weak and soft claws. All three heads had horned snouts. Their maws had sharp teeth that were a telltale sign of their carnivorous diet. Horny membranes protecting their eyes offered protection against arrows and thrown daggers.
Feywings were not afraid of battle and would fight until the prey was downed. This confidence was a result of their strength and bodies lacking any vulnerable spots.
Making up for what their claws lacked, feywings necks were as strong as tree trunks, and their horns and teeth were dangerously sharp. In battle, they flew with staggering speed and landed vicious attacks with the deadly horns and bites three at a time.
Feywings were known to inhabit the Five Shires on the world of Mystara, where they were almost hunted to extinction by the Shires hin inhabitants. Mystaran mages from Glantri sought feywings for their magical experiments, being enchanted, and trained to be used as guardians.
The creatures usually made homes in ruins, dungeons, and caverns, as well as lone mountain valleys. They were mostly solitary or found in couples. They were somewhat intelligent enough to share the love of treasure with dragons. However, the treasure was used to lure creatures for dinner or use as a bargaining chip.
Feywings main source of food was cattle easy prey on which to swoop down from the skies, impale on their claws, and carry away. Smaller-sized prey was also an acceptable meal when no livestock was available.
In the times that predate Netheril, feywings were found in the lands around the Moonsea, where they were ridden by kobold princes according to Elminster and several other sages of the Realms.
Trained feywings were in the hands of the Zhentarim in Cormyr, keeping watch from the Stonelands and staying a looming danger over Arabel in the mid--to-late 14 century DR. The Zhent feywing riders were not brave enough to attack the city but opportunistically raided caravans and wayfarers.