| length       = 
| wingspan     = 
| weight       = 
| skincolor    = Yellowish brown
| haircolor    = 
| hairstyles   = 
| eyecolor     = 
| build        = 
| distinctions = 
| appearrefs   = 
| first        = Fiend Folio 3rd edition
| histrefs     = 
Filth imps, also called filth demons or stinkers, were a specialized variety of imp from the Nine Hells that found refuge among criminals elements who respected their talent for forgery.It is possible that "filth demon" was a typo, given that imps are devils.
Filth imps were  humanoids that weighed about . They resembled common imps, but had saggy, yellowish-brown skin, lacked tails, and had a clump of stringy, natural oil-slick hair atop their slightly pointed, horned heads. They were wholly covered in dried excrement, and they reeked worse than even the foulest of privies.
Filth imps were extremely unpleasant, but irrepressibly boisterous that took pleasure in the suffering of the "cleanly" races. They had an uncanny knack for old texts, codes, ciphers, and counterfeiting.
Like other imps, filth imps could see in normal and magical darkness, healed quickly, and could take two other forms at will. They had a few innate spell-like abilities, includingdetect good, detect magic, and invisibility (on itself only) at will, and the spell stinking cloud once per day.
Uniquely, and distinct from their stinking cloud ability, filth imps could, thrice a day, emit an invisible cloud of stinking, sickening gas that would cover a  radius and leave those caught in its wake nauseated its effect dissipated quickly, but the stench could last up to an hour. Additionally, anyone who was injured by a filth imps claws was in danger of contracting filth fever.
Filth imps prefered to harass and heckle rather than fight openly, but when threatened would counterintuitively position themselves near the greatest number of enemies (albeit while invisible) before unleashing their horrible odor.
Despite being natives to the Nine Hells, filth imps were loathed by the dominant race of their home plane, the baatezu. Thus, despite their origin, they were often found in the thieves guilds of Material planar human cities, and made themselves useful by working as translators and forgers. Summoning them could be done with a summon monster IV spell.
However, the services of filth imps were laden with issues and nuisances. They were solitary creatures, and sometimes, in the course of their work as forgers and translators, they purposefully mistranslate important phrases as part of their vendetta against the cleanly. Furthermore, even those who did work with them were likely to do so at a distance on account of their fetid stench.
Filth imps were known to speak the Abyssal, Common, Draconic, and Infernal languages, but individuals often spoke other languages in addition to those.