Flame snakes, also known as fire snakes, were a type of magical snake with three sub-species that were tied to the element of fire These sub-species were referred to as the minor, lesser, and greater species.
All sub-species of this creature had bodies that were adorned in a mix of red and orange scales, with black ones running down their back in an intricate repeating pattern resembling ankhs. Heat seemed to glow from their bodies and at certain angles it looked as though heat waves were radiating off them. Their eyes were dull and almost never seemed to blink.
On average, minor flame snakes grew to be  in length and  in diameter. Lesser flame snakes largely resembled the minor variety, but uniquely a spike of hardened bone grew from their tails. On average they grew to be  and  in diameter. Greater flame snakes had darker scales then the other sub-species, being mostly red. On average their bodies grew to be  in length and  in diameter.
Flame snakes enjoyed collecting shiny objects, in particular those made of gold. The minor variety often forgot the location of their hoards.
Minor flame snakes were almost entirely subservient to the whims of their larger brethren. They were often mistreated by the lesser variety, the most foul tempered and vicious of the three sub-species. Lesser flame snakes sought to take out their anger over being abused by greater flame snakes on any creature they encountered.
Greater flame snakes were the most outright malicious, evil, and unpredictable of the three sub-species.
The bodies of these serpents generated so much heat that touching their bodies was like touching an open flame. The larger the species, the more heat that was generated, with the greater flame snake having a  aura of heat around their bodies. In addition, all species were impervious to harm from fire and intense heat. Their fangs also delivered a type of poison to victims that burned them from the inside.
Flame snakes were all skilled in climbing surfaces, even when in a rush or feeling threatened.
Lesser flame snakes could launch sticky globs of magmatic spittle from their mouths Whenever they were slain, a greater flame snakes body would explode in a fiery flash of flames.
In addition to their inherent magical traits, greater flame snakes were capable of casting the spells fireball and fire shield (warm shield only) three times per day, as well as fire storm and flame strike once per day.
All species of flame snake fought with similar tactics, constricting and with their venomous fangs.
Greater flame snakes were particularly known to attack with their flaming breath early into a battle and the used it frequently throughout a battle. While waiting for their breath to recover, they would attempt to swallow their foes whole. But in general, they knew their best tactic was to simply keep themselves close and wear other creatures down with their flaming aura.
Flame snakes spent much of their time coiled up, sleepily lounging in the warmth of their lairs. 
The minor species could be found either solitarily or in clutches of four to twelve members. The greater species could be found either solitarily, in pairs, or in clutches of three to six members.
Flame snakes were among the species counted as serpents by the Scaled Ones.
Flame snakes typically made their home inside of active or dormant volcanoes, near hotsprings, or near steam vents.
Beyond the Prime Material plane, they were primarily found in the Mulhorandi pantheons plane of Heliopolis.
All species of flame snake understood the language of Ignan, though only greater flame snakes were capable of speaking it. In addition, the greater species were capable of speaking Infernal.
These creatures were often coerced or bribed by others into serving as the guards of royal families. Due to their foul temper, lesser flame snakes were the least sought after for this. Greater flame snakes were only used by the most wealthy of rulers.
All sub-species of flame snake served the deities Set and Apep.
Among themselves, greater flame snakes claimed to have once been powerful fiends that were banished from the Nine Hells for some transgression that had long been forgotten. Many greater flame snakes sought to regain this supposedly lost power.