Foxes were a common animal found throughout Faerûn.
thumb|A healthy fox specimen.|350x350px
Foxes had large ears, long red fur and a bushy tail.
Foxes were known for their excellent senses of hearing, smell and vision. They were very agile and were able to evade predators with ease.
As a familiar to a sorcerer or wizard, foxes gained the innate ability to duplicate the effects of the dimension door spell three times per day. This ability functioned similar to a dryad, where the fox was only able to dimension door into a bush or a tree.
Foxes were cunning animals.
Foxes were excellent hunters.
Foxes were carnivores but would eat plants if desperate. They preferred insects and rotting meat.
Foxes lived in various climates and terrains. On Toril, they were known to live in Anauroch, Cormanthor , the Farsea Marshes, Fox Ridge in Shadowdale, Thar, and the Vast Swamp
In the Moonshae Isles, foxes could be found throughout many of its lowland deciduous forests.
In the Unapproachable East, foxes could be found in the Tannath Gap, Yuirwood, Ashenwood, and across the central plains of Rashemen.
Beyond Toril, foxes could be found on the planet Garden. And beyond the Prime Material plane, foxes could be found on the Brux layer of the Beastlands.
thumb|A druid and a fox animal companion.
One source claimed that foxes were never native to Toril, and were actually brought from Earth, most likely France, by an adventurous halfling trader named Altho Minstrelwish around . He had plans to sell their fur (particularly their tails, termed "brushes") for fashionable attire, but found few halflings were interested because of their distinct smell. Fox meat, whether roasted or stewed, was even less popular. In the end, he let the foxes run wild, and in time they displaced the native Faerûnian lynx. The hin word for "fox" was rennard, after the French word for a fox, renard. However, it was known that foxes existed on Toril far before the 1 century DR, even in the times of ancient Netheril.Foxes have appeared in earlier-set sources, such as in the time of Netheril in the novel Sword Play, suggesting Altho was responsible for a different breed of fox or the reintroduction of foxes.
According to Qukoku, the guiding philosophy of the Iulutiun and Angulutiun peoples of the Great Glacier, the fox was an utqukoku animal representing patience.
Foxes were hunted for their pelts, which were worth between three and five gp at the market.