Froghemoths were massive amphibious predators with four tentacles and three eyes. They were revered by bullywugs, who treated them as gods.
Froghemoths were some  long (or tall, when standing) and  wide, yellow on the belly and yellowish-green on the undersides of the legs, shading to light green on the sides, and then to mottled green on the  tentacles and back. The nostrils were on short stalks, and the three eyes, which were greenish-tinged amber with vertical, bright green edged with orange pupils, were similarly located on retractable appendage. Fully grown froghemoths weighed .
Immature froghemoths, called tadhemoths, looked fish-like, with four pectoral fins and two tails (which became tentacles and legs respectively) hatched from eggs about  in diameter, and grew a foot each month for six months, and then a foot every two months until they reached full size. The tentacles started developing at the six-month mark, and the legs started developing by the tenth month. After twelve months, the creature was fully mature. Tadhemoths were fully aquatic and relied on gills to breathe.
If a bullywug tribe came across a froghemoth, they would attempt to lure it to their den, paying tribute in the form of food and protection. They could communicate only at a basic level, so the froghemoth usually killed and ate a number of bullywugs before they could successfully communicate their intentions.
According to Omuan legends, the froghemoths were a creation of the primordial Ubtao. When Papazotl the eblis discovered Ubtao had forsaken the Omuans, he sent Kubazan the toad to parlay with Ubtao on behalf of the humans. But this enraged Kubazan, and he decided to wrest with Ubtao instead. Amused, the primordial gave Kubazan tentacles to make it stronger, creating the first froghemoth.
A froghemoth swallowing Salabak.
Froghemoths dwelt in a swamp outside Manshaka in Calimshan. In the Year of the Prince, 1357 DR, lured by the fighting between Vajra Valmeyjar and Salabak, it burst out of the water and caught Salabak with its long tongue, devouring him before retreating underwater.
Kubazan, one of the Nine Trickster Gods of Chult, was a froghemoth.