Garmorms, also known as faceworms or mindworms, were a rare species of worm-like creature native to the Astral plane.
These creatures had roundish, limbless bodies  in length with huge, tooth-filled maws.
Garmorms were incredibly intelligent. By nature they were very irritable and argumentative, with even their multiple faces sometimes quarreling with each other.
These creatures simultaneously perceived the Astral plane and those planes that touched it. They were capable of attacking creatures on those adjacent planes, in which case their astral body could only be harmed by magical items and spells. And in general garmorms were impervious to harm from psionic attacks and powers.
Their most notable ability was absorbing the minds of other creatures. When they did so, a garmorm would draw its victims body into their own and instantly dissolve it.
After being absorbed by a garmorm, a replica of a victims face would then appear on the creatures flesh. In general a garmorm could only have up to ten such faces on their body. These faces could press their way out from its body to such an extent that they could bite, sing, and cast spells if their face belonged to a spellcaster. Each day the garmorm would regain any spent spells as if the mind they absorbed had actually memorized or prayed for that days lot. After roughly four to sixteen weeks a victims mind would dissipate along with all benefits it provided the garmorm.
Garmorm were also capable of utilizing most magical items that they absorbed, with the exception of those that required touch like a magical weapon or a staff of striking. Much like the minds they absorbed, any magical items within a garmorms body would be fully digested within roughly four to sixteen weeks.
When attacking garmorm always sang and at given portions of their song they would snap their main jaws upon their prey, as well as the jaws of all its replica faces on its body.
Though sometimes found together in small groups, these creatures primarily lived a solitary existence.
They reproduced in an asexual manner that involved budding off some of their absorbed minds into a new garmorm. Though how exactly the process worked was unknown.
Garmorms were intensly ravenous creatures, that subsisted upon the mental energy of other sentient beings.
These creatures never willingly left their homeplane.
Garmorms only communicated through song.
Garmorms were hated enemies of the Ethereal planes terithran, though the hows and whys of this rivalry were unknown to others. And on very rare occasions a garmorm was known to form alliances with githyanki.
These creatures sometimes acted as servants of the gnome deity Urdlen.