The ghaeles were the knights-errant of the celestial eladrin. They were more subtle than other eladrin, often working behind the scenes to help defeat evil forces. Ghaeles also acted as advisers to the more powerful tulani eladrin. Of all the eladrin, they best understood the plight of mortals.
Ghaeles were numbered among the greater eladrin.
A ghaele resembled a regal, athletic high elf, but they also had opalescent eyes and a radiant aura. and weighed about .
They were compassionate and full of kindness, but because they had so much experience observing mortals on the Prime Material Plane, ghaeles were also the most serious of their kind—even humorless. They loved the Material Plane and its people and grew depressed if not allowed to visit it often, offering guidance to its good natives. They often developed close relationships with the mortals that they advised.
Ghaeles never worked for glory, thanks, or reward—success at stopping evil was reward enough.
Ghaeles were almost always chaotic good in moral outlook. and charismatic leaders.
Ghaeles were exceptionally fleet of foot and unbelievably strong. They could see in the dark and in dim light. 
Ghaeles were at all times surrounded by a nimbus of light,
thumb|left|250px|A ghaele (left) and a bralani (right).
Ghaeles could call on the power of divine magic
When in humanoid form, the gaze of an angry ghaele could strike weak and evil enemies dead in their tracks and instill great fear in most others.
Like all eladrin, ghaeles could assume an incorporeal form. In their alternate form they appeared as a scintillating globe of ghostly colors  in diameter. (Creatures from the Positive Energy Plane were not affected by these rays of light.)
Ghaele eladrin could use their innate magic to speak in any language, but their native languages were Celestial and Eladrin. Many learned Infernal and Draconic as well.
Ghaeles favored swords which they wielded with great efficacy. If they desired greater freedom of movement, they transformed into their globe forms and blasted their foes with searing light energy.
Ghaeles preferred not to wear armor, but they utilized shields and other magical defenses.
Ghaele eladrin were native to the plane of Arborea,) the realm of Arvandor, A population of ghaeles also resided in the plane of Ysgard.
In the courts of the lords of the eladrins, they served as advisors and councilors,
They also served as general defenders of their homelands against such foes as fiends or slaadi.
Like all eladrin, ghaele could only travel to the Material Plane in disguise. Moreover, any ghaele who acted unbecomingly on a mission was immediately recalled by the higher powers.
Ghales were not truly immortal, yet their lifespans were long. A typical ghaele could live for up to 800 years.
When ghaele eladrin produced offspring with humans, future generations of aasimar often maintained the trait of pearly eyes.
In the distant past, legions of ghaeles composed the bulk of the army led by Queen Morwel, Faerinaal, and Gwynharwyf, when they attacked the Plain of Infinite Portals in the Abyss and nearly eliminated all of the obyriths, an event that ultimately led to the rise of power of the tanarri.
A group of powerful bralani, led by a ghaele, had formed an ancient pact with the staff of the school at the Windsong Tower in Myth Drannor to guard one of its treasure vaults. The eladrin were still present until the year 1376 DR.