A ghost dragon was a powerful type of ghost created when a dragon was slain and its hoard looted. Ghost dragons haunted their former lairs, unable to rest until their hoards were restored.
A ghost dragon resembled the dragon as it was in life, except far more terrifying. Their forms were translucent and composed of swirling, sinister shadows. Only the most powerful of dragons They communicated entirely in whispers.
Ghost dragons were too powerful to be created via necromancy, although some had more particular requirements as well. When its treasures were satisfactorily restored, the dragon would curl up atop the treasure and disappear into the afterlife, thanking anyone who had aided it. There were conflicting reports as to whether or not the treasure always remained behind to be claimed by others or if it too would vanish alongside the ghost.
Although ghost dragons retained many of the traits that identified the breed of dragon that they were before their deaths, they did not retain their breath weapons. Instead, they breathed a cone of gray mist, which sometimes took the form of a ghostly parody of the breath weapon in life&mdashsuch as flames, lightning, or acid&mdashwhich sapped vitality from any creature in its path. This mist was paralyzingly cold and could induce nightmarish hallucinations and physical weakness, but the real danger was that anyone caught in the breath weapon would begin aging rapidly. This aging was proportional to their races longevity, so humans might find themselves as much as a century older while elves could find themselves older by a millennium. Ghost dragons were so thoroughly steeped in this kind of magic that even just being near one could cause a creature to age by as many as three decades instantly.
A ghost dragon could not be truly destroyed, only released from its undeath by providing it with the treasure it desired. If defeated and dispersed in combat, a ghost dragon would reform within two to eight days.
Ghost dragons were solitary spirits that retained many of their faculties from before their deaths, although they generally became less aggressive than in life. They were deeply attached to their hoards and were fixated on their lost treasures, often unable to think about anything else. Nothing could dissuade them or distract them from the goal of acquiring treasure, and the loss of their hoardes&mdashand their inability to restore them quickly&mdashwas a constant source of anguish. This obsession with reclaiming their treasures could make them dangerous as it led to them coveting any and all wealth they could acquire, whether in the form of money, gems, or magic items. Ghost dragons considered any treasure that came into their lair to be part of their hoard, and thus any visitors or trespassers were expected to surrender their wealth immediately as a "tithe" to the dragon. Ghost dragons rarely ambushed their trespassers, preferring to make their terrible presence known and to offer one chance to submit to the tithe. Refusal was met with savagery, while cooperation could earn the ghosts help and knowledge. Those who were especially polite as they handed over all of their treasure and magic would be allowed to keep 10% of their valuables.
Many ghost dragons retained an interest in conversation, and given that many existed for centuries if not millennia, they were a valuable source of historical knowledge. However, any information did not come cheap.
Most adventurers who had encountered a ghost dragon agreed that it was far wiser to submit to its demands for treasure than to fight it. Merely touching a ghost dragon&mdashor suffering an attack from their teeth, claws, or tail&mdashcould drain a creatures lifeforce and cause its strength to wither. An arm or leg struck by a ghost dragon would begin to shrivel. Combined with the rapid aging caused by their breath weapon, which most ghost dragons could use three times before needing to take any kind of break (and even then, usually for no more than 72 seconds), they were truly terrifying opponents.
Although undead, ghost dragons could not be turned and were unaffected by holy water. Most physical attacks passed straight through them or otherwise could simply not harm them, most spells cast from the Material Plane could not affect them, and they were extraordinarily resilient in the face of most magical conditions or efforts to restrain them. Some ghost dragons were known to retain the elemental resistances they had in life.
Although they were solitary and mournful spirits, ghost dragons were not completely detached from draconic society. Living dragons would sometimes take pity on their undead brethren, and would conspire to send them treasure in the form of wealthy, unwary adventurers. and Vergadain.
thumb|A ghost gold dragon displeased with a ghost beholder.
Ghost dragons could be found haunting their old lairs, particularly those that were dark, underground, or indoors. As spectral undead, ghost dragons needed no sustenance, and thus ceased to hunt within their territories. In general, they did not involve themselves with the physical world at all, except perhaps to collect tithes of treasure with which to restore their hoards. The presence of a ghost dragon could deplete a region of much of its wealth and magic items. In other instances, ghost dragons could be so closely bound to their hoards that they were unable to leave their lairs,
In the , ghost dragons were spotted flying around the Thunder Peaks.
Members of the Cult of the Dragon had experience with encountering ghost dragons as they searched old lairs for evil dragons to convert into their cause. By the mid-to-late 14 century DR, it was a common practice to try and steer agents of the Cults enemies&mdashsuch as the Harpers or the Zhentarim&mdashinto a ghost dragons lair in order to eliminate them while appeasing the spirits need for treasure. Some Cultists worked to help ghost dragons find peace so that they would pass on, and the Cult could then claim the treasure and refurbish the lair for their own nefarious purposes.
During the Rage of Dragons in the , a ghost dragon rose in the vicinity of the dracorage mythal.
In Skelkor on Abeir, the wraith-like rathrea were sometimes called "ghost dragons" by the local dragonborn.
* The white dragon Ghaulantatra became a ghost when she and the beholder Thaluul slew each other in her mazelike lair in the Greypeak Mountains north of the High Gap. As of the mid-to-late 14 century DR, the ghosts of both creatures haunted the lair, and battled to evict each other.
* The copper dragon Halatathlaer was slain in the , and his hoard and wyrmlings were taken from his lair beneath Dragonspear Castle. His ghost haunted the area, and as of the mid-to-late 14 century DR, he had come under the control of a cabal of necromancers.
* The silver dragon Miirym was bound to protect Candlekeep by powerful magic. When she was slain in the , this magic continued to bind her spectral form to Candlekeep, and in this state she was sometimes referred to as a ghost dragon.
* The mighty red dragon Ragflaconshen was killed by Abbathor, dwarven god of greed, who then plundered the wyrms lair himself. Ragflaconshens spirit persisted, and his ghost haunted his old lair beneath Turnback Mountain as of the , when Abbathor directed his faithful to restore the dragons hoard. This allowed him to pass on, leaving his old lair to became a temple to Abbathor known as Aefarn.
* In Sembia, rich merchants would pay good money to participate in an annual hunt for a mythic ghost called the Dark Dragon, which in fact did not exist.