Ghours were a type of demon created by the demon lord Baphomet within his Tower of Science.
Towering over most other beings, ghours resembled  tall ogres with many minotaur-like traits, most notably the massive horns that jutted out from their skulls. Covering their muscled builds was a thick and hairy hide, as well as other bestial features. Adding to their minotaur-like image were their hooves in place of feet.
225px|A ghour crushing its enemies.While not quite as strong as goristros, ghours were dangerous powerhouses in their own right. Their various spell-like abilities extinguished the powers of good, and their very presence created a choking aura of evil. Once per minute, ghours could exhale an enormous column of noxious gas, sapping the strength from those who failed to avoid it. Each day, they could release a powerful bellow, stunning if not deafening those nearby. Not only were they capable of telepathic communication, but they possessed an acute sense of smell.
When provoked, ghours shouted with all their might to disorient their foes before breathing their vile gas. After doing so, they rampaged through the battlefield like a raging bull, goring anyone that stood in their way and pummeling everyone else.
They were thought to be summonable with a summon monster IX spell.
Among the many creations of Baphomet, ghours were seen as a sign of his favor. They worked among both ogres and minotaurs alike, as well as with any renegade giants that joined Baphomets cause. They also resided within the Tower of Science in the Endless Maze, like other experiments of the Horned Lord.
Ghour were known to wander the Dustwall Mountains and Giants Belt Mountains. In the Abyss, they were native to the Endless Maze after being created by Baphomet in the Tower of Science.
The bloodlines of baphitaurs were known to include ghour blood. The ghours themselves were sometimes summoned and displayed in magefairs. Ingesting the flesh of a ghour could cause transformations. They were seldom the same between two different people, and not all of them were physical.
In the , the city of Ompre, then under beholder control, was conquered by demons, led by a particularly nasty ghour. After the armies of Var, Durpar and Estagund banded together nearly a millenia later and retook the territory, the ghour was known to have fled, and was rumoured even in  to have taken residence amongst the hill giants of the Giants Belt Mountains.
Within the Ice Spires mountains, west of Anauroch and north of Citadel Adbar, was a tribe of ogres thoroughly devoted to Baphomet. They were larger, stronger, and more active than most other ogres, and it was speculated this was due to the influence of a ghour.
Within the region of Thar, a ghour was reported to have been gathering the quarreling ogre tribes under his banner and uniting them with promises of restoring their legacy and kingdom around the .
In , Jallal Tasca was resurrected in Erlkazar with the flesh of a ghour in his mouth upon reviving, he transformed into a humanoid with horns, bestial features, and cloven feet. He later displayed regenerative abilities.
* Khurgroth