Ghouls were undead humanoids who devoured the flesh of corpses.
A ghoul appeared as an emaciated, roughly humanoid creature with an almost-hairless mottled, decaying hide stretched tight over its bones. It had the sharp teeth of a carnivore and sunken eyes that burned as if they were hot coals Ghouls possess the ability to talk, and they normally wear clothing, as well as carrying and using weapons. Ghouls often refer to humans as "smoothskins."november 15 2019 new wastland varient.
Ghouls could paralyze their victims with a claw or bite wound, though elves were immune. Paralysis lasted at least a dozen seconds and up to half a minute. Like most types of undead, ghouls were immune to mind affecting spells, such as sleep.
The bite of a ghoul also inflicted a terrible disease, ghoul fever, deteriorating health and agility within a day. Any who died from the illness rose as a ghoul at midnight.
Ghouls sought to ambush and surprise unwary victims wherever they could, usually hiding behind gravestones or in shallow graves they could swiftly burst out of. Once up close, they would slash at victims with their filthy claws and fangs.
Aside from the standard ghoul, a number of other varieties existed
Abyssal ghoul An extraplanar ghoul with fiendish characteristics that made them far more formidable.
Flesh seeker A subtype of ghoul arose from the bodies of Orcus worshipers in the period between the Spellplague and the Second Sundering..
Ghast A more powerful breed of ghoul, distinguished by its foul stench.
Gravetouched ghoul These ghouls were said to have been blessed by the King of Ghouls upon their return from the dead, and were thus more powerful than common ghouls. While standard ghouls lost all of their abilities from their previous life, gravetouched ghouls retained most of their former selves, albeit enhanced by the transformation into an undead creature.
Lacedon An aquatic breed of ghoul, powerful swimmers that lurked near reefs, waiting to prey on stranded vessels.
Plaguechanged ghoul A ghoul-like undead that had been killed and then animated by the energies of the Spellplague.
Stench ghoul An intelligent and horribly smelling subtype of ghoul that arose from the bodies of cannibalistic humanoids in the period between the Spellplague and the Second Sundering.
Ghouls hunted alone, in gangs of up to four, or packs of seven to twelve members.
It was believed that a living man or woman of any species whod tasted the flesh of people would rise again as ghouls after they died. This was  proven wrong however, but it fitted their cannibalistic behavior. However, others believed that anyone who indulged in extreme debauchery and evil could become a ghoul after death. depending on the species the ghoul was in life they can gain simalr abilities just warped slightlyThis account probably derives from the popular connection of the word "ghoul" with graverobbers and persons who delighted in the macabre, rather than the [https//en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ghoul demon of Arabic mythology] with the same name.
Whatever the truth, it was clear that any humanoid who was bitten by a ghoul, contracted ghoul fever, and died of it would inevitably rise as a ghoul themselves the following night, at midnight. Unless they were blessed or blessed and resurrected by a cleric before they could turn.
The new-risen ghoul lost all the skills and powers it had in life. Their minds became warped, turning them feral yet cunning and hungry for living flesh, becoming in all ways like another ghoul. They were not bound to serve other ghouls, however.
A more experienced or powerful victim would instead became a ghast.
Ghouls had a terrible hunger for carrion. They not only ate the dead, but also preyed on the living. They lurked in graveyards and on battlefields, wherever their foul food was plentiful and the air was thick with the smell of death.
Along with many other kinds of undead, ghouls were known to hunt within the Battle of Bones in the Western Heartlands by the mid–14 century DR. Ghouls also dwelled inside the House of Stone on the edge of the Ardeep Forest.
Beyond the Prime Material plane, ghouls could be found in the Domains of Dread. Intelligent ghouls made up the ruling class in the undead city of Evernight in the Shadowfell.
Ghouls spoke whatever languages theyd known in life, typically Common.
Some ghouls acted as servants of the deity Kiaransalee.
right|Ghoul warriors emerging from the ground.
In the Year of the Prince, 1357 DR, Vajra Valmeyjar, Cybriana, Timoth Eyesbright, Onyx the Invincible, and Priam Agrivar were camping at the base of Stoners Needle in the Sword Coast lands when ghoul warriors clawed their way out of the earth and snatched at them shortly before dawn. Their blades soon dismembered the undead, though the once-paladin Priam wished he could still turn them.
In 1369 DR, during the Pool of Radiances resurgence in the ruins of Myth Drannor, some of the orcs opposing with the Cult of the Dragon failed to ward off the undead that roamed the ruins. The Dwarven Tombs deep under Myth Drannor became the permanent lair for some of them, turned into hulking, and terrifying orc ghouls.
*Ghoulmaster a necromancer ghoul who desecrated the Cassalanter family crypt and was sending the raised dead of the nobles to plague Waterdeep in the mid–14 century DR.