Giant trolls were a rare subrace of trolls that resulted from the crossbreeding of trolls and hill giants.
These creatures largely resembled trolls, albeit much larger and with the pot-bellied build typical of hill giants. Their heads bore a closer resemblance to hill giants and they lacked the razor-sharp teeth typical of trolls. Their skin was a reddish-brown hue and their eyes had red rims.
Much like both of the races they descended from, these creatures on average possessed a low intelligence.
Giant trolls had a very keen sense of smell and their eyes were capable of seeing in total darkness out to a range of .
Giant trolls possessed the regenerative ability common among trolls and needed to be hurt with fire in order to be fully killed. However, they were unable to reattach severed limbs.
275px|thumb|A group of adventurers face off against a giant troll.
These creatures typically attacked with large, spiked clubs, made from tree trunks or the timber of a house.  When such a thing was not possible, they might resort to their clawed hands. However, when unarmed a giant troll generally preferred to grasp smaller opponents in their claws and wield them like a club. When overwhelmed by smaller creatures, they were likely to grab and and hurl those they discern as warriors at trees to give them time to deal with the weaker creatures.
Unlike other trolls, giant trolls were never known to fight by biting.
In 1358 DR, giant trolls were part of the Muktaran empires forces, comprising a unit known as Bazs Bashers that was led by a giant troll of the same name.
Around 1368 DR, a number of giant trolls were among the forces led by the troll TorGal in his siege of Arnise Hold. Gorions Ward faced two of them within its courtyard, than faced another pair within its cellar that were accompanying TorGal. Later that same year,The first date in the in-game journal is Uktar 12, 1368 DR. Gorions Ward confronted giant trolls while making their way through the Troll Claw Woods.
Giant trolls were rarely ever encountered alone, typically living and traveling in tribal bands.
Giant trolls were relatively adaptable, being found in any type of climate and any type of terrain.
In Faerûn they were primarily known to be found in the North, particularly in the Trollmoors and the Hall of Four Ghosts. In the Western Heartlands they could be found in the Trollclaws.
The standard variety of troll typically served these creatures in their lairs, acting as lackeys and sometimes food. They tended to be on good terms with hill giant tribes, serving as elite personal guards for their chiefs.
Some giant trolls took up the life of a shaman of Vaprak.
* TorGal, leader of the Rocksmash pack of trolls.
* Two giant trolls from Prime Material could be found on Phlegethon, wandering in caverns near a town called Windglum, having been shifted to the plane by some prime wizard.