Giant water spiders, also known as monstrous diving spiders, were a common species of monstrous spider that were adapted to living in aquatic environments.
These spiders in a wide variety of sizes, similar those of ordinary monstrous spiders, but generally tended to be smaller. One of the more average sizes for them was around .
Giant water spiders possessed a slight degree of intelligence. Because of this, creatures such as nixies were sometimes known to establish relations with them, often by means of offering food. But like any spider, they were liable to attack any creature that disturbed their home.
These creatures possessed a powerful poisonous bite. Their bodies were well adapted for running across all vegetative and mineral surfaces underwater, as well as swimming. They also possessed a sort of tremorsense, allowing them to detect and pinpoint other creatures within water.
Unlike other spiders, these creatures could not nets of webbing to use against their foes and their spidersilk lacked the sticky quality found in other species.
Giant marine spiders A rare species of water spider that was larger than others and found only in saltwater environments.
Giant water spiders would build large nests, either in a burrow amidst underwater vegetation or with spidersilk, that acted as a pocket of air. Any prey that was caught while out hunting would be dragged back to this lair, where they could safely cocoon them for later digestion.
These creatures were only known to inhabit freshwater lakes, though a rarely encountered sub-species lived in saltwater habitats. 
In particular, giant water spiders were known to occasionally be found in the lakes of Cormanthor, the neighboring Moonsea regions lake of the same name, the River Ashaba, Dragon Reach, and the Marsh of Chelimber. Beneath the cold plains and Galena Mountains of the Vaasa region, they inhabited an Underdark cavern sacred to Kiaransalee known as the Vault of Gnashing Teeth.
Following the Spellplague, giant water spiders could be found in the Vilhon Reach.
In the region of Kara-tur these creatures could be found in its tropical and sub-tropical oceans, temperate swamps, and temperate bodies of water. Such as the rivers on Akari island.