to  in diameter
| wingspan     = 
| weight       = 
| skincolor    = 
| haircolor    = 
| hairstyles   = 
| feathers     = 
| eyecolor     = 
| build        = 
| distinctions = 
| appearrefs   = 
| first        = 
| based        = 
| histrefs     = 
Giant snapping turtles were, as their name suggested, a huge-sized variety of snapping turtle and a species of giant turtle.
Giant snapping turtles resembled regular snapping turtles in all respects, only much bigger, growing to diameters of  up to . Like normal turtles, they had a bony outer shell, divided into an upper half called a carapace and a lower half called a plastron. They were capable of withdrawing their more lightly armored head and legs partly or wholly into this shell for defense, but their heads could extend up to  long in the very largest specimens. Although they typically moved and swam slowly, they were capable of shocking speed when they attacked.
Giant snapping turtles were amphibious.
Known to be aggressive and ravenous in appetite, they were rightly feared for the danger they posed. They would snap at smaller creatures that came close.
Giant snapping turtles hunted by lying still at the bottom of a lake or river or close to shore, before they swiftly extended their necks to snatch their surprised prey, inflicting grievous injury—one could well bite a human in half. If the victim was grabbed and still lived, the giant snapping turtle kept biting, and it took a great feat of strength to free oneself. When the prey was subdued or slain, the giant snapping turtle threw its head back, tossed the prey a few feet in the air, then caught and swallowed it.
When attacked, the giant snapping turtle was too slow to flee or put up a fight, so it preferred to withdraw into its shell, which granted great protection. While some breeds were unable fully withdraw, they tucked their limbs against the shell to minimize exposure. They would then deliver deadly bites against the attackers. Their builds made them very stable, but when they were knocked on their backs, it took an effort to right themselves.
While traveling to the Vishaps Teeth in 1367 DR, Khafaz ibn Dahz and his caravan encountered two giant desert snapping turtles.
Sometime before 1372 DR, the expedition to the Lizard Marsh led by Emythene Faldree encountered one of these giant turtles of . Four of the group were killed by its snapping jaws. The detailed recount of the expedition could be found in one of the books published by Emythene. It was called Beware the Lizard Marsh! and could e found in Daggerfords city library.
Giant Desert Snapping Turtle A species that was uniquely adapted to living on land, the undersides of their shells contained large pockets which they used to store water. They were endemic to the High Desert of Zakhara and their corpses could be found scattered all throughout it.
While it varied with species, giant snapping turtles lived a long time, anywhere for thirty years to a hundred and fifty years.
They were typically solitary creatures.
Giant snapping turtles were omnivorous creatures, taking whatever they found in their environment, from all kinds of insects and fishes to plants and small mammals, and even humans. They had a preference for fresh green plants and live worms, and understandably avoided carrion or rotting plant matter except when starving.
Giant snapping turtles dwelled in large freshwater lakes and rivers. Being uncommon but not rare, sightings of them were possibly the origins of some stories of lake monsters. It was possible that a desert-adapted giant snapping turtle might even exist.
Giant snapping turtles were one of the many dangers of the Lizard Marsh to the west of Daggerford.
thumb|right|An Utter Eastern giant snapping turtle.
Giant snapping turtles were found in the rivers of the Utter East, such as in Serpent Valley and Realm of Tides. They stayed in the water, and attacked all who came close to the shore. In the Unapproachable East, they could be found in the River Lapendrar.
They were also found in Snapping Turtle Bay in Chult, a place named for them. Throughout Chult, giant snapping turtles could be found in rivers and swamps, and sunning themselves on beaches. In the region of Kara-tur, they could be found on the Akari island.
Giant snapping turtles could also be found in remote parts of the Moonshae Isles and in Lake Sember.
Beyond Toril, these creatures could be found on the planet of Oerth.
Many cultures considered giant turtle meat a delicacy it was tasty and nutritious.
The carapaces of giant turtles could be used to make sturdy roofs, small huts, and boats.
* King Toba, a unique crystal-shelled giant snapping turtle in Snapping Turtle Bay in the late 15 century DR.
* Ol Cholms, a giant snapping turtle reputed to live in Gray Harbor in Baldurs Gate in the late 15 century DR.