| wingspan     = 
| weight       = 
| skincolor    = 
| haircolor    = 
| hairstyles   = 
| feathers     = 
| eyecolor     = 
| build        = 
| distinctions = 
| appearrefs   = 
| first        = Monster Manual 1st edition
| based        = 
| histrefs     = 
Giant stag beetles were a species of giant beetle and a monstrous variety of the species known as stag beetles.
The bodies of these creatures typically grew to be  in length. They had heavily armored exoskeletons and two horn-like mandibles, which could grow to be  in length at the least.
Giant stag beetles were sometimes repelled by fire, though this was not a guaranteed method to ward them off. When engaging in combat they almost never tried to retreat.
Much like other species of beetle, the giant stag had very a poor sense of hearing and eyesight. Because of this, they primarily relied upon their tactile and taste senses. The latter was done by means of their antennae, which also contained olfactory organs.
Giant stag beetles were known to often attack something organic if their senses considered edible. They also would always retaliate to being attacked. When fighting other creatures, giant stag beetles would often try to trample them. Whenever possible they tried to attack from behind.
In 1372 DR, a giant stag beetle was one of the creatures that the animal keeper Ferdinand kept in his menagerie at Neverwinter Academy.
Those that inhabited the Dalelands were known to form small colonies of four to eight mature members. One beetle was always assigned the duty of guarding the lair and would touch antennae with other giant stag beetles in order to ascertain whether they were part of the same colony or not.
Giant stag beetles were a herbivorous species. They had a great fondness for grain and similar cultivated crops. They would sometimes raid farmlands in order to obtain them.
thumb|273px|A giant stag beetle nest that Bryn Ohme Thornwood sketched in the Mistledale.Above burrows Two stirges and a gargantuan praying mantisInside burrows A juvenile fire lizard and giant badger alongside the stag beetles.
The lairs of these beetles were fortified and had entrances similar to a gopher hole, though resembling more of a flattened oval that was as long as it was wide. These entrances were only big enough for mature giant stag beetles to squeeze through. There was then a second opening that was used as an escape route in case predators entered.
Giant stag beetles would construct their lairs near trees infested with stirges when possible, as they would leave the beetles alone and fend off any intrusive mammals. Similarly, they allowed predators that had no taste for them to cohabitate in these lairs, such as fire lizards and giant badgers.
Their lairs always featured two nests, with one being a decoy. Their true nests were covered with a foot of leaves and sticks., while the latter ere made from rotting leaves and small sticks. Females would chew these leaves in their mandibles, spreading a colorless and odorless acid upon them.
Giant stag beetles were generally encountered in forests of regions with a temperate climate.
In North Faerûn they were known to inhabit the forests of Cormanthor, particularly in the Midwood area. In the forests of and near the cultivated areas of Cormyr, Sembia, and the Dalelands. Particularly in Battledale, Mistledale, and Shadowdale.
In south Faerûns Shining South, they could be found in the Forest of Amtar and the Great Rift.
In the Unapproachable East, giant stag beetles could be found in the Forest of Lethyr, Rawlinswood, and Yuirwood. In the Hordelands, they could be found in the southern forest of Shalhoond.
On the Chultan Peninsula, giant stag beetles were a common sight in the jungles of the nation of Samarach.
Beyond Toril, they could be found on the planet of Krynn.
Gargantuan praying mantises were one of the main creatures to prey upon giant stag beetles.
Due to their dietary habits many creatures who cultivated crops considered these beetles to be a serious pest,
* A giant stag beetle could be summoned by an amber amulet of vermin.
* The best known method for exterminating these creatures was a concoction known as stag beetle poison.