to 2
Giant fireflies, also known as firefriends, were a rarely encountered much larger relative of the mundane firefly.
These creatures had a pair of sharp mandibles and a phosphorescent abdomen that had similar levels of luminosity to a torch. This light was of a soft green or yellow hue and was shed within a  radius. Their bodies could grow to be up to  in length, weigh little more than , and were brightly colored. Usually ranging from emerald green to metallic blue. Their wings could on average grow to a span of  and contained a large number of blood vessels.
Giant fireflies had a level of intellect slightly above that of most insects, though still relatively low. They were quite clever, had friendly dispositions, and shunned obvious threats. They typically only attacked if provoked.
These creatures possessed some form of natural resistance against fire and lightning. In addition, they were capable of adjusting the brightness of their abdomen and concentrating it, shooting out a greenish beam of light that was  in diameter, up to a length of . In addition, they could keep their abdomens light glowing for indefinitely for a short period.
The eyes of giant fireflies were capable of seeing in areas of total darkness.
The largest specimens of this species were capable of carrying various loads of equipment. For them a small load was roughly equal to and below , a medium load capped off at , and the heaviest load they could manage was .
Outside of the concentrated beam of light from their abdomens, giant fireflies were relatively poor combatants.
These creatures hatched in the spring and reached maturity by the age of two. Overall they had a lifespan of ten or so years. They used their superior flying skills in intricate aerial courtship battles and dances, which could last for hours.
These were a carnivorous species, feeding upon smaller insects and even birds.
Giant fireflies preferred warn and wet environments, such as tropical forests and marshes. They were integral to the ecosystems of many tropical areas. In their larval stage they were largely aquatic creatures.
In addition to their own insectoid language, these creatures were often capable of speaking Common. They typically learned how to say the latter by the age of one or two.
Giant fireflies often sought humans and demihumans as companions, leading many to hold them and high regard and their alternative name, "firefriends." They loved to converse with such creatures and hear stories of a fanciful nature. Some giant fireflies grew so large that other creatures used them as flying mounts, sometimes using them for the purpose of search and rescue. Riding one of these creatures required a special saddle
These insects were a favored animal of the deities Brandobaris and Sheela Peryroyl.
The egg of a giant firefly could fetch prices of up to 300 gold pieces, while professional trainers fetched a similar price.