Giant flying spiders, also known as chasm spiders or hunting spiders, were a rare species of subterranean spider related to the much smaller flying spider.
The most distinguishing feature of this species was that they had translucent, cobweb-like wings. They used these to aid and steer great leaps, traveling up to  horizontally on average. So long as their wings were intact and had room to beat, they could fall almost any distance without being harmed.
The body of a hunting spider measured around  in diameter.
These spiders were of average intellect for a creature of their nature. This made them capable of being trained and of recognizing people by their gestures, smell, and voice. They generally lacked the intellectual capability to recognize if someone was a spellcaster. Hunting spiders also disliked bright lights and had a fear of fire, meaning that a campfire was typically sufficient to deter them.
These creatures had a deadly venomous bite, which took effect ten to thirty minutes after their victim was bitten. Giant flying spiders also had the trait of truevision.
Much like a bird, giant flying spiders would use their airborne capabilities to ambush potential prey.
In 1492 DR, giant flying spiders were in use by members of House Auvryndar of Menzoberranzan as they worked to establish a foothold in Undermountain.
Giant flying spiders were generally not known to sleep.
These spiders were an omnivorous species. Some of their favorite prey included small animals, goblins, kobolds, and even other lesser species of spiders. They generally did not try to prey upon humans unless they were alone, unarmored, and had no significant source of flame near them.
Giant flying spiders exclusively inhabited subterranean areas. They occasionally came up to the surface to hunt, particularly at night.
Some individuals were known to train giant flying spiders to act as guardian animals, which would remain loyal so long as they were regularly fed. Many were known to serve wizards as familiars, especially drow wizards.