Giant four-armed gargoyles, or variant of gargoyles for whom it was said only the lich Acererak knew the secrets for how to create. They were typically utilized by him as guardians over his tombs.
These gargoyles on average stood around  tall, and weighed roughly . Besides their height, the most distinguishing feature these gargoyles exhibited was two sets of arms.
These creatures could naturally see in areas of total darkness and were at times more perceptive than the standard gargoyle.The standard gargoyle of 5 edition is stated to have a passive perception of 10, while the giant four-armed gargoyle has a passive perception of 15. Though in 4 edition, this creature and the standard gargoyle both have a perception of +12. They could enter an inanimate stone form at will, granting them greater resistance to harm, regeneration from damage, and a short range tremorsense. While in this form they were entirely motionless, almost indistinguishable from a statue.
As was typical of most gargoyles, these creatures fought by rending their opponents with their ferocious claws and fangs.
Being creatures of elemental earth, these gargoyle variants knew the languages of both Terran and Primordial.
After murdering the nine trickster gods of Omu and enslaving the citys citizenry to build for him a dungeon that would come to be known as the Tomb of the Nine Gods, Acererak stationed four of these gargoyles at the entrance to the dungeons forth level, the bottom of a grand staircase. There the four sat perched on a cylindrical stone pedestal, atop a tile made of precious metal. Each pedestal measured  tall and  wide, was situated at one of the four cardinal directions, and had a slot in it  above the ground that was large enough to press a standard coin through.
Acererak had designed it so that each of the four pedestals was meant to take a certain denomination of currency corresponding to the type of precious metal atop them, though the gargoyles would also accept equivalent tithes of multiple coins, such as 10 copper pieces in place of a single silver piece, or coins that were of a greater value overall. The northern pedestal was meant to take a copper piece, the eastern pedestal a silver piece, the southern pedestal a gold piece, and the western pedestal a platinum piece. If their tithe was not paid or if any of their pedestals were damaged, the gargoyles would spring to life and attack those passing through.
On that same floor, Acererak also placed a giant four-armed gargoyle within a mirror of life trapping to act as one of its guardians. And on the fifth floor of the dungeon complex, Acererak had a statue of one of these creatures as part of a puzzle to obtain the Eye of Zaltec. This statue stood a measly  and was impossible to destroy. Those who plucked the Eye of Zaltec from its hands would open a nearby secret entrance, but also be met with the statue opening its mouth and filling the hallway with sleeping gas.
Sometime between 1488 DR and 1492 DR, a group of adventurers traveling through the Tomb of the Nine Gods encountered both sets of four-armed gargoyles. When they finally reached the statue on the fifth floor, they found that one of its four arms had broken off and was lying on the ground close to it.