| wingspan     = 
| weight       = 
| skincolor    = 
| haircolor    = 
| hairstyles   = 
| feathers     = 
| eyecolor     = 
| build        = 
| distinctions = Large mandibles
| based        = Woodboring beetle
| first        = Monster Manual 1st edition
Giant boring beetles were a species of giant beetle that could form an intelligent hive mind with others of the same species, and its ability to bore.Note that the beetle was named after its ability to bore through organic material, not that it was uninteresting.
Boring beetles were common creatures, but had animal intelligence, unlike other beetles, which were non-intelligent. They were approximately  in length.
Being smarter than other giant beetles, groups of boring beetles developed a communal intelligence that generated a level of consciousness and reasoning ability like that of a human brain. Due to this level of collective intelligence, they could collect treasure and magical items.
They used their large mandibles in combat to inflict powerful bites upon their victims.
These creatures were typically found in groups of up to eighteen members.
Giant boring beetles were an omnivorous species that primarily fed upon rotting wood and other organic material. If in areas devoid of organic material, they intelligently grew cultures of molds, slimes, and fungi for food.
These creatures could be found in almost any type of environment,
In the North they could be found in the Midwood area of Cormanthor, as well as in the forests of Cormyr, Sembia, and the Dalelands. In northeast Faerûn, they could be found in Vaasa.
In the region of Kara-tur, giant boring beetles could be found in the forests of Akari island. And in the Zakhara regions Crowded Sea, they could be found on the Djinnis Claws.
Beyond Toril, these beetles could be found within the Underdark of the planet of Krynn.
CategoryCreatures found on Krynn
The fungal farms that giant boring beetles cultivated served purposes beyond nutrition. For example, shrieker fungi functioned as nest alarms, which alerted the collective hive-mind when intruders came into their home. When triggered, the beetles reacted very quickly to such alarms, swarming the intruders. After the battle, the boring beetles took the remains of their enemies and either ate them, or used the organic material to raise saprophytic plants.
A giant boring beetle could be summoned to the casters aid with the monster summoning III spell.