Giant eagles were large-sized magical beasts that resembled massive eagles.
Giant eagles were intelligent, keen-eyed birds of prey that sometimes associated with good creatures. A giant eagle was a noble creature that spoke Auran and understood speech in the Common tongue.
As a intelligent creatures, giant eagles were expected to be treated with respect or their pride would be hurt.
280px|A giant eagle and its rider.
Giant eagles were found in the Nether, Rauvin, and Ice Mountains, as well as the Spine of the World, in northwest Faerûn. They were also found in the Dragonjaw, Thesk, and Sunrise Mountains in northeast Faerûn. Giant eagles nested in Evermeet in the Guardian Trees.
In the Unapproachable East, they could be found around the Umbergoth mountain of Aglarond.
In the Zakhara regions Crowded Sea, they could be found on the island chain of Nada al-Hazan and the archipelago of Jazayir al-Sartan.
Like most mundane animals, giant eagles could be found in the Beastlands.
Remnis was the patron god of giant eagles in the Realms.
Giant eagles were prized as mounts, even being the sole mounts for the Eagle Knights of Evermeet. They were also revered by the Eagle Tribe hunters in the western region of the Shaar.
They were sometimes seen guarding or accompanying elves or dwarves and were known to be capable of forging strong friendships that could last their entire lives.
The clergy of Aerdrie Faenya was primarily concerned with exploration and maintaining good relations with giant eagles.
For a very long time Avariels nourished respectful and admirative bonds with giant eagles.
The feather of a giant eagle could be used as a material component for the spell protection from birds and uniquely would double its duration. The feathers could also be used to create a sublimate in order to brew potions of flying.
Around 1374 DR, one could find giant eagles stabled by the Zhentarim as mounts within the Temple in the Sky.
*Verronthar, mount of Sharian Korianthil of the Eagle Knights.
*Stormwing, a ranger of Lurue and member of the Fangshields.