Giant sea anemones were a monstrous species of the creatures of the same name, which many mistook for plants.
These creatures had a stout central body that was  in diameter and crowned with a gaping maw that was  in diameter. Surrounding their mouths were a number of tentacles, with the average amount being around a hundred. Each tentacle was covered in hundreds of small, barbed, hook-like needles that would spring forth once a prey was in their grasp.
Anemones had very colorful bodies that displayed colors of blue, green, pink, orange, purple, or some combination of them.
These creatures possessed no form of higher intelligence, having intellects below that of most animals.
The barbed hooks that covered the tentacles of anemones would inject prey with a paralytic poison, which could be negated with the spell neutralize poison. So long as a tentacle was attached to a creature, the poison would continue to advance.
Any tentacle that was severed from an anemones body would regrow at a rate of  per day. The base of the creature however, could not regenerate.
The tentacles of anemones would very swiftly ensnared any creatures that came within  of them and draw the prey towards their maw. Anemones typically would attempt to attach at least three tentacles to their prey. If a prey was inedible or too large, it would release them once they became paralyzed. If an anemone was full, then it would simply hold on to its prey for later.
When seriously threatened a giant sea anemone would draw their tentacles all the way back into their central body.
Chest Anemone a variety of giant sea anemones that were specially cultivated by the storm giants of Maelstrom. They were around  tall and  wide. Unlike other species, these anemones were capable of surviving out of water and had hollow cavities within them. They were used by storm giants as both treasure chests and waste disposal systems.
These were often encountered in a stationary position, but were capable of moving themselves at a very slow rate. Most rarely chose to do so, remaining in one spot for the duration of their lives.
These creatures reproduced by budding, with young growing out from their base. Once sufficiently grown it would break off and move to its own feeding ground.
Giant sea anemones were a carnivorous species.
At depths greater than , giant sea anemones were typically found solitarily. In tidal pools and secluded shorelines, smaller varieties of them could be found in groups numbering up to fifty or even two hundred. These smaller varieties would fasten themselves to rocks.
These creatures could be found in the Sea of Fallen Stars.
Beyond Toril, they could be found in the oceans of the planet Krynn.
Some creatures were unaffected by the paralytic poison of giant sea anemones, either from being immune to it or from having thick hides. This included certain brightly colored fish, which would hide inside them from predators and feed on the scraps they left behind. And barracudas, who preyed upon their tentacles.
Some aquatic races kept giant sea anemones as guard animals, fighting them just enough to keep them from wandering away.