The gigantes, known by some simply as giants, were a race of monstrous elder giants created by the primeval goddess Gaea.On page 105 of Legends & Lore the gigantes are referred to as simply "the Giants". This is carried over to page 2 of the Living City module No Time to Lose, which copies much of the former text verbatim in order to provide backstory for the greater titans in the adventure. Despite their other name, gigantes were nothing like the true giants found on the Prime Material.
A gigante was large in stature and had a rather human-like appearance, but they had serpents in place of where feet should be or serpent tails where legs should be. They could move with incredible speed.
The gigantes possessed incredible power, being living embodiments of volcanic power. Each individual gigantes had some sort of unique power, such as a regenerative nature or a fear aura.
These creatures could be found on Othrys, the first layer of the plane of Carceri.
Gigantes harbored a deep seething hatred for the deities that made up the Olympian pantheon. They would never pass up an opportunity to cause some form of harm to either them or their minions.
The goddess Gaea convinced one of her children, the greater titan Cronus, to overthrow his father Uranus and thus avenge her mistreatment, However, Cronus went back on his word and refused to free his monstrous brethren. Furious, Gaea laid a curse upon Cronus, proclaiming that one day his own children would usurp him in turn. Eventually Gaeas curse came to pass and Cronus was usurped by his own son Zeus, who alongside his siblings led the way for the creation of the Olympian pantheon and the imprisonment of their forefathers, the greater titans, in the plane of Carceri.
Not long after the gigantes challenged the rule of the newly formed Olympian pantheon, having been directed against them by their mother Gaea in an effort to free the greater titans. However, the Olympians held fast against the gigantes and ultimately overcame them. The gigantes were then imprisoned in Carceri alongside the titans.
Millenia later, in the ,Despite that Seven Millennia of Realms Fiction states that this novel occurs in 1369 DR, the novel is actually set later than this. Page 359 states that the events in the novel are "3 years" after the events of Prince of Lies (itself set in 1368 DR). Furthermore, in the first couple of chapters, Malik el Sami states to have lurked near Candlekeep for "years" after the events Prince of Lies (this must be true because the caliph received a letter detailing the events of Prince of Lies prior to sending Malik on his mission). Specifically, the following is written in a letter "Oghma gave the tome to a mortal and bade her travel forth and hide, blessing her with a diamond amulet that would conceal her from all the gods of Faerûn", which happened in 1368 DR (in the previous novel). This is further supported by Malik claiming that he "had returned from years of spying" and even his superiors stating that "el Sami has, of necessity, been blind to the progress of the One Church over the last few years". a gigante appeared on Toril and attacked the settlement of Elventree in Cormanthor. The goddess Mystra sent one of her avatars to the scene to do battle with gigante and protect the settlement.