Glabrezu (   Unlike succubi, who preyed on lust, glabrezu exploited the mortal desire for power in the many forms it took.
With a broad, muscular body, a glabrezu stood  tall and weighed 
Despite their physical prowess, glabrezu preferred to work behind the scenes, both on the Prime Material Plane and in the Abyss. Glabrezu took pleasure in the act of temptation, luring all they met with lies, deception, and offers of power before ruining their victims lives.
Glabrezu did not offer pleasures of the flesh, but tempted those of weak wills and great ambition with promises of unparalleled influence. They collected vast sums of gold, magical items, and other useful bargaining chips and stored them all underground in a massive hoard. They were unable to change, or polymorph, their frightening appearance, so they usually visited mortals in secret, often using telepathy to speak directly in their preys mind. Sometimes they made their nature known while at others they tried to manipulate their targets by inciting paranoia or twisting their sense of right and wrong.
Glabrezu had access to a wide variety of spells, including the power to spontaneously generate darkness and dispel magic. They had truesight that extended as far as their telepathic communication that they could use in concert during their dealings so as to avoid being seen and to prevent acts of deception. Both their arms were fully functional, but they made more use of their claws in combat in order to grapple their enemies. Although they could travel between the planes freely, they usually only came to the mortal plane when summoned.
Glabrezu could cast wish for a mortal once per month.
A glabrezu in combat with Drizzt DoUrden.
Glabrezu preferred deception to combat, particularly if it served no actual purpose. They would rather have their minions do the work if they did not need to do it themselves, and through their corrupting ways could turn allies into enemies and brainwash companions into fighting one another. However, they had no qualms about direct confrontation and did not hesitate to wade into battle, in fact embracing any chance to burst into violence.
Unlike normal magic users, glabrezu did not stand behind their minions casting spells, but ran straight into combat using chaos-inducing powers to send the battlefield into disarray. A glabrezus normal strategy in combat was to use their confusion spell-like ability before using chaos hammer or unholy blight to finish off wounded foes. They might also use reverse gravity to launch enemies into the air before letting them drop back down, or combine it with power word stun (which was usually saved for the strongest opponent) to send them careening helplessly into the air. They casually used dispel magic while dealing with other problems using their various physical and magical abilities.
Throughout a fight, a glabrezu might summon demons great in size or number. They were powerful enough to have little compunction about doing this if the battle was difficult, as unlike lesser demons they were not concerned with needing to compensate the help for their services. Little prevented them from teleporting at will across the battlefield, and they were willing to simply leave the fight to harass their foes another day.
350px|Quinix on his throne in the Gate of Iron Fangs.
Glabrezu, for all their terrifying presence and wish-granting abilities, only occupied a middle class amongst the demons of the Abyss.
Demonic opinions on the glabrezu varied depending on who was asked, although most lesser demons like chasmes and dretches rightfully feared them. Mariliths, on the other hand, were dismissive and hateful towards the glabrezu despite their mutual love of planning. While glabrezu favored subtlety and temptations, mariliths felt these games were inferior to true warfare and would prefer to wipe the glabrezu out completely, settling for attempts to discredit them to higher-ups. Meanwhile, the balors were in favor of the corrupting tactics of the glabrezu, giving them work as spies and counselors. Lilitus had a similar fondness for the manipulative glabrezu, sharing their love of subtle corruption.
The glabrezu played little role in the combative side of the Blood War, instead focusing on their sinister schemes. Though not as direct as the warmongering of the mariliths, glabrezu ploys were part of a deeper evil, a more insidious form of subjugation. Their monstrous appearance belied their societal role as the Abysss covert agents, exerting their influence on other planes with surgical precision and planting greed in the minds of mortal summoners to secure power for the Abyss in the long-term.
Glabrezu that became mages were known for their use of direct and destructive magic.
400px|A glabrezu being summoned by a drow priestess.
Glabrezu were most commonly summoned directly by a mortal, such as ambitious human wizards or drow priestesses who hoped to make a bargain. They hated it when they were forced to follow the orders of mortals, and avenged themselves by crushing the spirits of those around them once back in the Abyss.
Sometimes glabrezu found potential victims on their own, presenting their "gift" whether or not the recipient wanted it. If their victims refused their offers, glabrezu thought nothing of slaughtering them instead, as being willing to summon a demon was likely indicative of their fate regardless.
Glabrezu promised much to mortals, but their capacity to grant wish spells to their "clients" was one of their most dangerous offers. Glabrezu required the wish being granted to be for an evil cause that would cause incalculable devastation or suffering. Failing this, they demanded an act of great wickedness be committed as payment, or for the one petitioning them to make an incredible sacrifice. Even worse than asking a glabrezu to grant ones wish was accepting an offer made by the demon itself.
Among the most fearsome aspects of the glabrezu was their mere presence on the Material plane, as lingering too long caused their corruption to spread. Arrogant mortal summoners often believed they could control glabrezu with ease but the very act of their summoning planted seeds of evil. Their corruption sickened people, animals, and plants alike, even causing the sky itself to grow darker as they leeched off the power of the plane.
In an unholy, rarely successful ritual, a half-drow, half-glabrezu monstrosity known as a draegloth could be born from a drow priestess. Unlike glabrezu, they were impatient and destructive, only improving their magic that could be used for destructive purposes. They served drow houses as opposed to the masters of the Abyss, but were believed to be a sign of support from Lolth.
Glabrezu were some of the earliest demons to appear in the Abyss, a demonic manifestation of mortal envy. The half-organic armor plating underneath their flesh was an indication that they had been tampered with by the ancient obyriths known as sibriexes.
Around 1385 DR, Pharaun Mizzrym was killed (for the second time) by magical backlash from a glabrezu.
In 1485–1486 DR, glabrezu were among the demons that wandered the streets of Menzoberranzan and participated in the failed defense of QXorlarrin against the dwarves. In that conflict, a glabrezu slew former king Connerad Brawnanvil.
The demon Marilith often traveled with two glabrezu guards.
Some glabrezu traveled to the Endless Labyrinth, the 600 layer, in order to capture goristros for use by other demon lords, raids that Baphomet begrudgingly tolerated as a method of raising his own legendary status.
*Belshazu
*Bizmatec
*KuralRisyk was imprisoned in a demonshield since the 1 century DR.
*Mizferac
*Quinix
*Vulgorger was among many of the leaders of the abyssal forces fighting in Androlynne, the 471 layer of the Abyss, to kill the last remaining eladrin on the plane.