| length       = 
| wingspan     = 
| weight       = 
| skincolor    = Pale (bioluminescences)
| haircolor    = 
| hairstyles   = 
| eyecolor     = Gray, green-gray, blue-gray, or violet-grey
| build        = 
| distinctions = 
| appearrefs   = 
| first        = 
| based        = 
| histrefs     = 
Gloamings were a variety of planetouched creatures with heritage from both Toril and the Plane of Shadow.
Gloamings were humanoid in form, with dark-furred wings and pale, bioluminescent skin they could control the brightness of their skin, changing between none at all, through levels of dimness, up to blindingly bright. Their eyes were grey, green-grey, blue-grey, or violet-grey in color, and often described as "cat-like" due to their oval pupils and tapetum lucidum (that is, the eyes reflect light). In dim light, the eyes appear metallic in color. The fine fur on a gloamings wings could be black, dark brown, or dark grey. The wing fur was thick and had an especially notable gloss at the tips and at the base.
Most gloamings had one or more tattoos, which created differently-shaded or lit patterns on their luminescent skin. They ranged in height from  to , and weighed about .
As a group, gloamings were curious and prided themselves on their individuality-or perhaps their contrariness, for the alignment of any given gloaming almost always was something other than the dominant alignment of the region they were in. For example, a chaotic evil gloaming would not be found in a chaotic evil settlement, but gloamings of most other alignments might be found there. And in a predominantly neutral region, the gloamings there will be of extreme alignments (the corners of the alignment grid).
The gloaming race had several innate abilities, including their bioluminescent skin and low-light vision, but they suffered light blindness in bright light. They could fly, with only average maneuverability. They also had a minor talent for shadow-based illusion spells they were also resistant against the use of such spells on them/ Interestingly, gloamings were sensitive to the presence of nearby portals, and they were majorly resistant to psionics.
Although settlements were rare due to gloamings wanderlust, gloaming settlements tended to run contrary to the dominant alignment of the area. They shunned all organized religion.
Gloamings detested drow, sharing legends that told of drow capturing, torturing, and experimenting on gloamings. Illithids did not find gloamings palatable and thus left them alone.
Gloamings were uncommon in the Underdark but almost never seen on the surface.
FRCrépusculin
CategoryPlanetouched
CategoryRaces
CategoryHumanoids
CategoryCreatures found in underground locations
9z3v039wsn4xx4x6fwe1pknhhggyzfr