| refs3e       = 
| size2e       = Small
| alignment2e  = Chaotic evil
| refs2e       = 
| size1e       = 
| alignment1e  = 
| refs1e       = 
| patron deity = 
| movement     = 
| vision       = Infravision
| activecycle  = Any
| diet         = Special
| lifespan     = 
| location     = Domains of Dread
| intelligence = Genius
| language     = Languages they knew in life, presumably gnomish
| subraces     = 
| climate      = 
| terrain      = Underground
| genrefs      = 
| height       = 
| length       = 
| wingspan     = 
| weight       = 
| skincolor    = 
| haircolor    = 
| hairstyles   = 
| feathers     = 
| eyecolor     = 
| build        = 
| distinctions = 
| appearrefs   = 
| first        = 
| based        = 
| histrefs     = 
Gnomish vampirism was a strain of vampirism originating from the Domains of Dread that only gnomes were susceptible to contracting. By at least the , this strain of vampirism had some presence on the Prime Material world of Toril.As the concept of demihuman strains of vampirism were created for and kept unique to the Ravenloft setting, it stands to reason that gnomish vampirism did not originate on Toril. The mysterious nature of Blood Curdling Scream leaves into question whether or not they are the first gnome vampire on Toril.
Age for a gnomish vampire was apparent on their flesh, over time becoming haggard to a state of near mummification.
All gnome vampires were quite dour and elusive individuals.
Gnome vampires retained the  of infravision that all gnomes had, but it was further augmented. They also had an inability to speak, though the reason behind this was unknown.
thumb|273px|The demihuman vampires of RavenloftAn elf vampire, a dwarf vampire, a halfling vampire, and a gnome vampire.
The gnomish strain was distinct from standard vampirism in many ways. Much like other vampires, they could climb sheer surfaces as if affected by  spider climb, though they could only cling to inorganic surfaces such as earth, stone, or metal. Unlike the standard strain they could not shapechange, but they could cast change self at will and maintain it for an unlimited length of time. Finally, while they could command any nearby animal to do their bidding, a gnome vampire could not summon creatures to their aid like the standard strain of vampire. Any animal commanded by them would remain by their side for 2 to 8 days before leaving.
Weaponry could not harm a gnome vampire unless it was metal and carried either a +1 to 3 enchantment depending upon how many centuries old they were. Those over 300 years of age required a +2 enchantment to harm, while those over 500 years of age required a +3 enchantment.
In addition to the traditional vampiric immunities to diseases, poisons, as well as charm, hold, and sleep spells, gnome vampires were overall unusually more resistant to magic than the standard strain of vampire. They were unaffected by illusion spells, spells that duplicated sunlight, and were less harmed by spells relying upon cold, fire, or lightning.  Consequently, magic items were liable to malfunction in their hands, with the exception of those that mimicked the effects of illusion spells.
Unlike standard vampires, gnome vampires did not have enhanced strength. They did, however, possess a debilitating touch that inflicted painful stiffness upon the muscles and joints of those touched by them. This touch could cripple and possibly even kill a creature by gradually spreading its stiffness to the heart and lungs. Any gnome that died from this touch could arise three days later as a new subservient gnome vampire if certain conditions were met (see "Creation"), though unlike other strains a gnome vampire could not turn their gnome victims into vampire spawn.
Instead of transforming into a cloud of vapor like the standard strain, gnome vampires had the power to assume a spectral form that was comparable in appearance to a group of will-o-wisps. While in this form they were able to pass through solid stone walls and similar barricades, but were incapable of phasing through anything that was living or once-living material, such as wood.
Gnome vampires could twist their facial features into grotesque leering grins, inflicting an effect similar to Tashas hideous laughter upon those who gazed upon it, though this prolonged laughter caused pain to those affected. This ability became more powerful as gnome vampires grew older.
Like most vampires they could be harmed by holy water, true sunlight, and contact with holy symbols. Paladins and priests presenting a holy symbol with conviction could turn them away, though the older a gnome vampire was the less effective this became. They also were compelled to examine jewels, though this compulsion would break upon being attacked, and they recoiled from silver backed mirrors.
A strange quirk of gnomish vampires was that they were incapable of entering a building unless they rapped once at a door and a living creature responded.
Whenever a gnome vampire was brought to the brink of death their body would transform into its spectral form and attempt to flee to its sarcophagus. If they took too long to reach the sarcophagus, their spectral form would break up and the vampire would finally die.
According to gnomes, the most guaranteed way to destroy a gnome vampire was to impale it with a silver stake enchanted with bless. The creatures hands had to then be cut off and boiled in a natural volcanic hot spring for a full day. The vampires body had to be placed in a masterwork wooden casket and its eyes removed, with precious stones put in their place, each worth at least 100 gold pieces. After the hands were boiled to destruction the coffins lid could be hammered shut.
Due to lacking any enhanced strength, gnome vampires often fought with proper weaponry, such as flails. They were particularly effective at fighting bugbears, goblins, ogres, kobolds, and trolls.
* Blood Curdling Scream, a mysterious priest of Urdlen that wandered the Bandit Wastes of Lapaliiya with a blood-crazed pack of weremoles in the mid–14 century DR.
Any gnome that died from the debilitating touch of a gnome vampire would arise as one themselves after a period of three days, but only if certain conditions were arranged by their killer. In order to spread gnomish vampirism, the potential sire had to place the victims body within the sarcophagus they normally slept in. The gnome vampire would then have to rest atop the coffin for the entire three day period, not even leaving to feed, so as to allow their negative energy essence to slowly seep into the victims body. During this process the potential sire was incapable of regeneration or utilizing any of their spell-like abilities. If the process were to be interrupted, the victim would remain dead and their killer would perish. Once successfully arisen, the newly created gnome vampire would be subservient to their sire until they perished.
Alternatively, gnome vampires could occur on the world of Toril from the Blessing of Malphagor, a unique curse that the demipower Malphagor would place upon any living creature who killed his high priests. Alternatively, high priests of Malphagor were capable of bestowing this "blessing" upon corpses. Any gnome clerics that bore this curse would arise as a vampire one to four minutes after dying.
Rather than blood, gnome vampires sustained themselves by feeding upon the youthful vitality of those they touched.
Gnome vampires were generally hermits that lived underground and rarely chose to create others of their kind as the process was quite involved and life threatening.
Gnome vampires retained understanding of all the languages they spoke in life, such as Gnomish. Due to their inability to speak, most communication with them was done through written messages.
Gnome vampires were counted among the many strange servants of the Gnomish deity Urdlen.