| length       = 
| weight       = 
| skincolor    = 
| haircolor    = 
| hairstyles   = 
| feathers     = 
| eyecolor     = 
| build        = Humanoid
| distinctions = 
| appearrefs   = 
| first        = 
| based        = 
| histrefs     = 
Greenspawn zealots were dragonspawn whose primary role was to support other dragonspawn in battle. They were religious fanatics who ardently studied and communed with their goddess, Tiamat.
Greenspawn zealots resembled draconic humanoids with green scales. They favored plate armor when in combat. Males and females were very similar, to the point that it took practice to tell the two apart. Both stood about  tall and weighed around .
Greenspawn zealots were sadistic and cruel, but also loyal to each other and utterly devoted to Tiamat. They adhered closely to their chains of command.
Greenspawn zealots had an affinity for acid, which they were immune to. They also possessed an  ability to cause damage to an enemy creature while healing an ally within  of the same amount of damage.
Greenspawn zealots were less effective in direct combat than other dragonspawn, and were only encountered alone if they were somehow separated from their allies. Otherwise, they preferred to fight alongside other creatures.
Greenspawn zealots did not wield the raw power of other dragonspawn, but were among the most destructive, thanks to their strict hierarchy that allowed them to command large numbers of other dragonspawn. They were also religious fanatics when the dragonspawn armies took over a location, greenspawn zealots would establish monasteries that served as both temples and command centers. Within these monasteries, greenspawn zealots communed with their goddess by way of great pools of swirling energy.
Unlike other dragonspawn, greenspawn zealots were created deliberately. Zealots would gather eggs from other dragonspawn and then ritually bathe the eggs in a mixture of Tiamats blood, blood from an ancient green dragon, and 200 gp worth of crushed emeralds. The resulting greenspawn zealots were indoctrinated into the teachings of Tiamat. As adults, greenspawn zealots were sadistic, cruel, and utterly devoted to Tiamats cause. They served as higher-level officers and battle chaplains in the dragonspawn armies. They sometimes came into conflict with blackspawn raiders and redspawn arcanisses, as those dragonspawn would resent the zealots power. However, few dragonspawn were willing to move against the chosen of Tiamat.
Greenspawn zealots had a natural affinity for divine magic and some even became clerics. They normally traveled with other dragonspawn, and only traveled alone if somehow separated from their allies.