Gremlins were a species of goblinoid-like fey creatures, whose plane of origin was unknown to most.
These goblin-like creatures had indistinguishable sexes and their skin color ranged from shades of brown, black, and gray&mdashfrequently in a mottled blend. They had large and pointed ears. Some had bat-like wings and were thus often mistaken for imps.
Gremlins often wore no clothing.
Gremlins were very intelligent creatures. They were typically chaotic, mischievous, and cowardly. They delighted in angering people.
Gremlins were amazingly resilient creatures. They had a slight magic resistance and could only be harmed by enchanted weapons. When infesting an area, they were nigh impossible to completely eliminate.
As cowardly creatures, gremlins much preferred fighting their enemies through trickery and traps over face-to-face combat. They would only resort to this if cornered and fought by biting or slashing with their claws.
Following his assault on the kingdom of Mag Tureah, the fomorian king Thrumbolg ordered that all captured goblin slaves should be transformed and corrupted by powerful rituals. These rituals resulted in the creation of the first gremlins. These first generations were used by Thrumbolg to break up powerful alliances against him, as well as sow unease and dissent within eladrin cities. But eventually he lost control of them and they wreaked havoc within his own court before being driven out.
In 1368 DR, gremlins could occasionally be found in the sewers beneath Waterdeep.
Some time later in the 14 century DR, the town of Blackbarn became infested with gremlins. They committed many acts of thievery and vandalism, persistently resisting the residents efforts to exterminate them. Eventually the gremlins started to be referred to as "the Blackbarn Curse" and bodies of those killed were strung up on posts. To circumvent the gremlins many things in the town were made from stone or locked away behind cupboards or with stout locks.
Gremlins were highly susceptible to mutation and were capable of interbreeding with any goblinoid species. Because of this, over time many other species of gremlins came about.
* Bendith, a wingless species of gremlin that devoted their long lives to replacing the children of humans and demihumans with their own and then raising those children to be unruly menaces to society.
* Fremlin, a minuscule winged species of gremlin that had a more friendly and harmless nature.
* Galltrit, a minuscule winged species of gremlin that subsisted on blood.
* Jermlaine, a minuscule wingless species of underground gremlins that were greatly associated with rats. 
* Mite, a wingless subterranean species most closely related to jermlaine and snyads.
* Plainsjan, a wingless species that primarily inhabited the planet Anadia.
* Snyad, a wingless species of gremlin that were quite dexterous and had a love for treasure.
Gremlins traveled in small packs. They had a social order that was highly organized, where both sexes were treated as equals.
They did not mate often and offspring were left to fend for themselves after birth, which they typically were fully capable of doing so. Gremlins matured within the course of a month.
Gremlins were generally omnivorous creatures, though some species had unique diets, such as the galltrit.
Gremlins could be found within the Feywild, the Feydark, and on the Prime Material plane. They most often dwelled covertly within the settlements they terrorized, infesting buildings, and taming vermin or other animals to their service.
On the Prime Material, three species of gremlin made their homes in the Upperdark jermlaines, mites, and snyads. Most lived in small groups, typically lairing in mazes of tiny chambers and passageways along major trade routes. This allowed them to prey upon unwary travelers.
On the surface they could be found in parts of the Western Heartlands, where they were referred to by some as "graywings", and within cities and villages in Cormyr, the Dalelands, and Sembia. Beyond Faerûn, gremlins could be found in the Pasocada Basin.
Gremlins could be found living openly among goblins, lizardfolk, orcs, and any other humanoids that could tolerate their chaotic nature. Most races in the Underdark sought to exterminate gremlins if given the opportunity.
Gremlins could sometimes be found working with demons, as their chaotic personalities meshed well.
In Wheloon, the Oldstone Hall featured stone carvings of gremlins.