Grey elves were a sub-race of high elves endemic to the planet of Oerth and Greyspace.
Grey elves bore a resemblance to the silver elves of Faerûn. Standing nearly as tall as humans,
All members of this race tended to favor bright garments of gold, silver, yellow, or white. Especially wool tunics in those colors. In terms of cloaks, they most often wore ones that were deep shades of blue or purple.
Grey elves had attitudes and outlook comparable to those of most silvanesti on Krynn and sun elves on Toril&mdashvery arrogant and believing themselves to be superior to other races, even elven races. They considered themselves to be the purest form of elf, despite the fact they were a sub-race. Though of course, not all grey elves possessed a snobbish demeanor.
These elves also tended to be highly intelligent, and such a quality was very valued in their society. They preferred to rely more on their mental talents than on their physical abilities.
Grey elves generally wore winged helmets with shimmering suits of plate mail or chainmail while carrying shields, particularly elven chainmail. They typically fought with bows, spears, swords, and two-handed swords.
However, they did not value physical prowess. Thus, many grey elves took up of the profession of a mage, though they usually did not become specialized wizards.
In the , grey elves were occasionally encountered by travelers in the forests of the Savage Frontier.
Grey elves were a very reclusive people. They highly valued this seclusion, viewing it as independence from a corrupting outside world, and would fight fiercely to remain secluded from all, sometimes even from other elven sub-races. Outside of that they spent much of their lives indoors, seeking scholarly pursuits. Studying, researching, contemplating, and writing treatises learned.
Their societies were very rigidly defined, hereditary monarchies. Much like the socities of drow, personal freedom was not valued and movement was carefully restricted, With citizens of their cities being divided by a caste system.
Their craftsmen were capable of making items that could hold the strongest of enchantments, with subtle charms worked into them that made the item more receptive to whatever magic a mage might use to enhance them. Their craftsmen were particularly focused on the creation of spellbooks and scrolls.
They often had hippogriffs as mounts, and giant eagles as guard animals. Though a few grey elves were known to instead have griffons acting as both guards and mounts.
On their home planet of Oerth, they were known to inhabit isolated meadowlands
On their home planet these cities had some of the most extensive libraries of any city. These were communally open to all elves who wished to expand their knowledge and better themselves.
Out of all elven sub-races, these were among the least tolerant of other races. Grey elves almost never associated with other non-elven humanoids for long or frequent periods of time. And they feared the possibility of other, shorter-lived races tainting their bloodline. However, members of other elven races often readily chose not to befriend them, for they disdained how arrogant and serious they were. Some even felt their behavior and way of life was comparable to that of humans or dwarves.
Because they spent so much of their lives studying, grey elves had many elves of other races as servants for menial and physical labor.
Grey elves allowed only a select few outsiders entry to their cities, such as very powerful mages and wizards, but even these individuals were treated with great suspicion.
* Some of the oral traditions of the gray elves spoke of Atropus.
* Visitors to Toril that were familiar with this race of elves sometimes suffered from confusion, due to the fact that the planets silver elves, Though this term was considered by them to be a pejorative.