Grimlocks were a race of monstrous humanoids that lived in the Underdark, the degenerated descendants of humans who had wandered into its depths centuries ago.
Grimlocks were a humanoid race of creatures with slightly scaled, thick gray skin that was usually scarred from hunts through their constricted underground passageways. Those with a special status in their society often had decorative designs scarred into their skin Many had long claw-like nails. Some were said to have completely white eyes,In 1 and 2 edition sources, the grimlocks are identified as having completely white eyes. From 3 edition onward their description was changed to there just being skin where their eyes should be.
Grimlocks typically wore little clothing or armor, though some were known to sport tanned leather belts and harnesses, as well as decorative bracers.
Grimlocks were very blunt and suspicious of other creatures. Those who wandered away from their kin often experienced culture shock, but felt some sense of gratification at how strange things were. These wanderers were also known to be capable of overcoming their xenophobic leanings, viewing each individual they meet as a potential pack member. Though this mindset needed to be reinforced through daily meditation.
Though grimlocks were prone to evil acts, their intent was rarely malicious. Rather, their behavior was rooted in a deep sense of self-preservation and struggle for survival.
Biology
Over the course of living within the Underdark for centuries, grimlocks gradually lost the use of sight and became vulnerable to light. To compensate for this they developed an acute sense of smell and echolocation.
270px|A pair of grimlocks assault a goliath at the behest of their drow masters.
Grimlocks were extremely xenophobic and preferred to keep to themselves. 
Some grimlocks were known to do work for other races as ambushers of Underdark caravans or as looters of ancient ruins.
Some sources claimed that the grimlocks were the descendants of humans of Uthgardt ancestry from the Golden Eagle and Red Pony tribes. Long ago, in 576 DR (the Year of the Sunless Passage), these barbarian tribes vanished into the Underdark by way of a passage that leads down from beneath One Stone, the Uthgardt ancestor mound located in the easternmost Moonwood. After years of wandering in the lightless passages of the Underdark, these barbarians evolved to become the grimlocks. They retained twisted vestiges of their ancient traditions, including a depraved form of ancestor worship that involved consumption of the aged and weak while they still lived.
Other sources claimed that the grimlocks were descents of cannibal cults, from the days of the Illithids empire, who had fled into the Underdark following the empires collapse.
One tribe of grimlocks resided in the Cavern of Cloven Heads, a small cave that five thousand years prior was the site of a battle between a rear guard of dwarves of Clan Black Axe and a group of drow refugees led by Menzoberra the Kinless (the Lolthite priestess who founded Menzoberranzan). This tribe abandoned their nomadic ways and settled the surrounding caverns. Within the Cavern of Cloven Heads lay a monstrous boulder engraved with runes. Surrounding the boulder are the riven skulls of hundreds of drow. This discovery matched fragmentary legends regarding the grimlocks lost ancestor mound, so they now revere this mound as such. This mound was actually an ancient dwarven cairn of the Black Axe Clan. The inscriptions on the boulder were Dethek runes that related the legend of the "Brave Beards." The rock itself lay atop the spot where the last defender of the dwarven rear guard, Dorn Black Axe, literally sank into the floor of the cavern.
Additional communities of grimlocks were found beneath the Storm Horns and Thunder Peaks within Cormyr,