Guardian genies were special tasked genies in Zakhara who were sworn to defend specific items or locations.
Most of these genies were once efreet who were reshaped over time,
Many of the first guardian genies chose to become tasked genies in order to ensure the freedom of family members, to repay a debt, or to serve as punishment for a crime. They often hated the noble dao or noble efreeti who first purchased their services.
Guardian genies had two faces, one to watch forward and one to watch their flank. They were completely devoid of hair and had dark red skin. All four of their arms were heavily muscled. Guardian genies stood 10 feet (3 meters) tall and weighed 2,700 pounds (1,225 kg). Guardian genies never wore armor, relying instead on their tough skin for protection.
Guardian genies were capable of moving at inhuman speed, lunging and attacking much faster than creatures smaller than them.  A guardian genie always attacked enemy wizards first.  They could wield weapons in each of their four hands equally well.
Guardian genies could hear a feather fall on stone from a hundred paces away. Combined with their all-round vision, this made them impossible to surprise. Guardian genies did not require sleep.
They could use the following spell-like abilities shout, alarm, silence 15’ radius, detect invisibility, guards and wards, wyvern watch, blade barrier, and sepia snake sigil.
Guardian genies were immune to all illusion, enchantment, and charm spells and were resistant to all other forms of magic.
They could use a special breath weapon that came in the form of a cloud of green fire.
Individual guardian genies possessed unique powers as well.
Guardian genies were solitary, disliking social encounters. The spoke in brief sentences and disliked questioning. They required complete knowledge of any item or location that they were tasked to guard. They never guarded living creatures. Any creature that attempted to bribe a guardian genie was attacked.
A typical guardian genie’s contract lasted for either 101 or 1001 years and was renegotiated after it expired.
Guardian genies were occasionally frustrated creatures since their task could never be completed as other tasked genies tasks were.