|Warrior|
| refs5e       = 
| size4e       = 
| origin4e     = 
| type4e       = 
| subtype4e    = 
| alignment4e  = 
| refs4e       = 
| size3e       = Medium
| type3e       = Humanoid
| subtype3e    = Hadozee
| alignment3e  = Often neutral
| challenge3e  = 
| refs3e       = 
| size2e       = Medium
| alignment2e  = Neutral
| refs2e       = 
| size1e       = 
| alignment1e  = 
| refs1e       = 
| patron deity = 
| vision       = 
| activecycle  = Any
| diet         = Omnivore
| lifespan     = 70&ndash110 years
| location     = 
| language     = Common, Hadozee, Elven
| subraces     = 
| climate      = Warm
| terrain      = Forest, space
| skincolor    = 
| haircolor    = Tawny to chocolate
| eyecolor     = Black
| hairstyles   = Shaggy
| distinctions = Wing flaps, prehensile toes
| form1        = Male
| appearance1  = |weight=
| form2        = Female
| appearance2  = |weight=
| based        = 
| first        = 
Hadozee, also known as "deck apes" or "winged deck apes", were simian humanoids with distinctive patagia who were known for being master mariners and famed for their sailing skills and love of their ships and the sea.
While their nicknames described them as apes, hadozee were taller and skinnier than apes, Hadozee were covered in fur of all varieties of brown&mdashfrom light tawny to dark chocolate&mdashand it was so thick that they really had no great need to wear clothing. Their faces were surrounded by a shaggy mane. A hadozees snout protruded outwards from its face, and had a mouth full of small but sharp teeth and a some long fangs. Their eyes were black and tended to sparkle.
Hadozee had no tails. Their feet were fully prehensile, complete with opposable thumbs, allowing them to hold onto things with both hands and feet.
The most distinctive physical feature of the hadozee were their patagial wing flaps, much like a bat or flying squirrel. This membrane of skin hung loosely between the arms and legs, from wrists to ankles. When hadozee raised their arms, the membrane stretched taut.
Hadozee had a moderately stooped posture, so it was not obvious that they stood about  tall when fully upright. Some could even reach  in full, outstretched height. Muscularly built, they usually weighed roughly .
While not needing clothing, hadozee often wore harnesses or belts to hold their tools and weapons. Regular clothing would interfere with their wing flaps and they required armor specially tailored to them, of course. They would wear clothes when cold, when visiting an unfamiliar port, or on ceremonial occasions, and preferred a special form of caftan with slit sides.
Hadozee were nimble and dexterous, with excellent balance and natural climbing skills that meant they were able to scale poles, ropes, trees, and most walls with ease and walk across any platform no matter how narrow and without fear. These skills made them especially suited for life on sailing vessels of all kinds. With four effective hands, they could climb and carry items at the same time and were not vulnerable to attack while scaling a surface. They had a natural inclination toward all manner of melee weapons and were ambidextrous. They could even fight with a weapon held by a foot!
When the arm-flaps were stretched tight, a hadozee could leap into the air and glide for limited but impressive distances, such as between the rigging of two different parts of a ship, though they were not capable of true flight. Should a hadozee happen to fall, they could glide and land safely, over any distance. The wings had secondary benefit—they could wrap them around their bodies for warmth.
The hadozee also had magically heightened fight-or-flight reflexes with their quick reactions, they could evade attacks and mitigate injuries.
thumb|left|A hadozee explorer.
Having an inherent love of travel and exploration, hadozee were eager to see the world by sailing over the horizon. For them, a life well lived was one in which theyd seen and experienced all that they could. A few hadozee focused this drive on specific goals, such as journeying to uncover magical secrets, the lore of fallen empires, or just hidden pirate treasure. A hadozee adventurer was not too different from a regular hadozee. While many hadozee felt called to the sea at some time in their lives, those who journeyed inland were considered a little odd by other hadozee but no more than that—"to each their own" was a hadozee saying.
Most hadozee were actively curious and were unquenchable optimists. This latter quality lent itself to a tendency to make good-humored jokes in even desperate circumstances, though some could have a dark or bitter sense of humor, at least when it suited the situation. They were very expressive&mdashintensely so&mdashwhether laughing or loudly whooping when having a good time, and fang-baring and snarling when angered. However, they also had a reputation for rudeness, being known to produce torrents of insults and derisive or disrespectful remarks and for having sharp tongues that could make even an experienced sailor blush. They moderated this tendency only around their employers and elves. They truly loved elves, and this resulted in flattery towards them.
Nevertheless, they were a highly peaceful people who fought only when they had to, but when they did, they did not shy away from battle for they were natural warriors and were quite comfortable in the midst of a mêlée. A friendly brawl was good a bit of fun and they rarely held grudges.
Hadozee were naturally as intelligent as humans only people who didnt know better treated them as mere apes. They were practically minded and wanted only to be happy and to live and work in peace and let others do the same. They were not philosophers and gave little consideration to ethics and morals, being more neutral in nature. They loved operating ships and looked forward to their shipboard tasks and chores, not considering them inconveniences. This gave them a reputation as hard workers who were diligent and got the job done, as well as as courageous and capable fighters. Although a few unprincipled sorts might exploit this, most captains considered them quite highly and welcomed them on their crews. They were respected across all the known crystal spheres.
thumb|right|280px|A hadozee ranger ready to leap from the rigging.
Capable of wielding any weapon a human could, hadozee seemed to favor longswords, spears, or halberds or cutlasses and falchions if at sea. They could wield a weapon in each hand, or foot, with ease. However, their wings made it impossible to carry shields, so they only used bucklers.
They favored a mobile style and a common tactic was to climb to higher ground then leap or glide down on their foes. They rarely killed an opponent and were quick to forgive offense.
Hadozee who had spent time on spelljammers&mdashwhich was nearly all of them in wildspace&mdashhad learned how to use the gravity planes of vessels to their advantage. While they would glide towards an enemy vessel and seek a place to land, they knew how to dive into a plane, change their orientation, glide under and back over the vessel, and land on the other side oriented just how they wanted to be to attack.
Hadozee were known as wanderers and sailors on the oceans of various worlds and in wildspace as mercenary spelljammer crews who would hire themselves out to various vessels. However, they had no spelljamming capability of their own as a race and relied on being hired by other spacefaring races. As young adults, hadozee formed groups of 20 to 30 persons, who trained together as a mercenary company until ready to join the crew of a spelljamming vessel. Both sexes served equally as sailors and mercenaries. Most were shipmates they were common among spelljammer crews. Hadozee warriors were often mercenaries, and some would even work with pirates. Companies of hadozee warriors took flamboyant names like the Jammin Wingbats, the Night Howlers, and the Soaring Hadozees. Finally, the elite hadozee explorers wandered wildspace in search of adventure and wealth, and regularly worked as navigators on spelljammers to them, wildspace and the Astral Plane were worth exploring.
Only after they were too old to sail did hadozee retire and settle on a world. There, they mated and focused on raising their young. Children were raised communally, often being left by their parents with adults of a shared ship-name for up to months at a time.
Hadozee enjoyed living in large groups together and slept in hammocks in large communal houses. Groups would pool their money to purchase and keep up a large communal dwelling house, sometimes called a Hadozee House, and thereby have a place to easily host visiting hadozee. A hadozee who arrived in a port with no Hadozee House would likely stay onboard ship. The hadozee in these houses were hospitable to these visiting hadozee, always willing to listen to the latest stories from sea or space. In return, hadozee visitors chipped in on rent or helped with repairs and chores as needed. Hadozee maintained their living quarters well if hadozee tenants left a house, they left it in much better condition than when they first rented it. Mothers, visitors, and hadozee recovering from injuries would help care for any children left there. Grown hadozee remembered these Hadozee Houses as happy homes with many new faces and stories.
thumb|right|250px|A hadozee shipmate.
Away from their homes, hadozee could be encountered singly or in a bands of up to four. They could also be found piloting their own seagoing ships with all-hadozee crews, including crewmembers, cabin boys, mates, first mate (often a ranger), and captain.
The native tongue of the hadozee consisted of low vocalizations, barks, and hoots, but it also used a small amount of body language that was easy for non-hadozee to learn. They were adept linguists and enjoyed learning many other languages, and they were happy to find a non-hadozee who could speak their own. Spelljamming hadozee were familiar with the languages of most of the spacefaring races.
Hadozee did not use surnames. Instead, they created a "ship-name" for themselves, derived from the name of a vessel on which they took great pride to serve. If that vessels name was feminine, then they treated it as if a mother, and included a word like child, son, or daughter to reflect this. For example, a female hadozee named Dashi might call herself Dashi Pearldaughter after serving aboard a vessel named The Lady of the Pearl. Hadozee who had served aboard the same respected vessels might consider themselves stronger family than even true kin. However, they did not change their names with their ships the ship, crew, captain, or voyage had to be truly great to be worthy of a new name.
* Example masculine names Bansh, Darsh, Falth, Garsh, Grath, Groh, Harth, Krath, Marn, Polth
* Example feminine names Bahasha, Bannithi, Dashi, Kalla, Kasha, Mara, Risha, Yasha, Yetha
* Example ship-names Dawnwarrior of The Dawn Warrior, Midnightchild of The Midnight Lady, Nightdream of The Dream of the Night, Pearldaughter of The Lady of the Pearl, Swiftson of The Swift Lady, Swordstorm of The Sword in the Storm, Wavedancer of The Wave Dancer
Most hadozee were not very religious, though they did offer respect to the gods and goddesses of the sea venerated by the sailors alongside whom they served. However, a hadozee might choose to revere a single sea god after serving alongside a shipboard cleric.
On the seas, the hadozee favored working on elf ships, for elf employers, or with elf crewmates. In wildspace, spelljamming elves often had hadozee crewmen and mercenaries they gladly employed them and paid them well, but elven arrogance meant they did not view them as equals of Tel-quessir. Otherwise, hadozee had good relations with most people, except those who would not do a hard days work. Theyd met many different peoples in their journeys.
Hadozee reached adulthood earlier than humans but had similar lifespans. They had similar dietary and survival needs as humans, but they were less picky about their food, being content to eat insects and grubs, and even human food if they had to. Similarly, while they preferred tropical climates, they could survive in chilly environments by bundling up in warm clothes when needed.
Owing to their seafaring society, hadozee were invariably found on the coasts, in port cities, and on the sea itself. They did prefer warmer weather and tropical climates, and hence rarely took work on ships sailing to temperate climates, let alone to arctic regions. One home of spelljamming hadozee was the Rock of Bral.
thumb|left|A hadozee warrior.
They were native to the world of Yazir, a world with a temperate to warm climate. Early in their evolutionary history, the ancestors of the hadozee were mammalian tree-dwelling creatures about the size of housecats whod evolved wing-like flaps to glide between branches. They tended to be timid and were hunted by their bigger natural predators on the ground.
In one apocryphal story, a wizard commanding a small fleet of spelljammers arrived at Yazir and ordered their apprentices to capture dozens of the hadozees animal ancestors in magical traps. Aboard the ships, the wizard dosed them with an experimental elixir that caused them to grow larger, stand upright, and even become self-aware, but it also heightening their fight-or-flight reflex. The wizards twisted aim was to develop an army of engineered warriors, and sell them as slaves. But the hadozees rebelled and slew the evil wizard, stole all the remaining elixir, and escaped back to Yazir. In these efforts, they were aided by the apprentices, whod come to like and respect them. The hadozees used the elixir to change more of their kin, until, in a few generations, all were sentient humanoid beings. Finally, they left their world and went to space, where they remained for centuries.This creation story for the hadozee was officially removed in errata, but it still appears in printed copies of Spelljammer Adventures in Space. It is retained here for reference, but is presumed to be false.
In any case, they later left that world and its predators, as wildspace was where they felt most at home. They travelled through space for many generations.
For seafaring hadozee, whatever homeland they once had was forgotten, and they did not particularly care where it was. In their cultural memory, they had always been asail.
There was a long tradition of hadozee serving as spelljammer crewmen or mercenaries for the elves of wildspace. This tradition extended back to the time of the Unhuman Wars, when the elves soon realized that the hadozee were far more principled and cultured than the orcs and other "unhumans" with which they had first grouped them. The hadozee and the elves formed an alliance, with the hadozee aiding the elves in the war effort. They gladly served on elven vessels ever since, considering it a high honor.
thumb|right|Boatswain Tarto.
* Boatswain Tarto, a training officer at Spelljammer Academy
* Shrii Hallek, manager of the Man-o-War inn and restaurant in Bral