Half-fey were creatures born of a union between fey and any other form of corporeal, non-fey living creature.
The appearance of a half-fey varied considerably depending upon their heritage. They always exhibited one or more distinctive attributes owing to the fey side of their heritage, like jeweled or knotty skin or butterfly-like wings (unless other parent was a creature that already exhibited wings in their physiology). Sometimes their heritage was noticeable since the moment of birth, but in other cases the fey aspects of their heritage could take several years to manifest.
Owing to the fey side of their heritage, half-fey typically exhibited some form of chaotic alignment. They were often best described as charismatic, free-spirited, and enigmatic individuals. Those who leaned towards chaotic good were more compulsive, unpredictable, and devoted to the cause of defending the wilderness from the ravages of civilization. Those who leaned more towards chaotic evil were malicious, petty, sadistic, and vindictive individuals that delighted in raising mayhem.
All half-fey inherited a propensity for seeing in areas of low-light and an immunity to all manner of charm and enchantment powers or spells.
Additionally, half-fey possessed a wide range of spell-like abilities that they could cast each day. They could charm person at will, detect law three times per day, or cast protection from law three times per day. Additionally, they potentially had the capability of casting some of the following once per day
 confusion, dominate person, emotion, enthrall, eyebite, faerie fire, geas/quest, glitterdust, hold monster, insanity, lesser geas, mass charm, mass invisibility, mass suggestion, Ottos irresistible dance, sleep, Tashas hideous laughter.
A half-feys relationship with its fey heritage varied considerably. Whilst some were outright ignored by their fey parent, others were properly raised and instructed in all manner of fey secrets. In most cases it was difficult for them to fit into mortal societies, being viewed by others as immensely alien and strange, sometimes leading to persecution born from superstition. However, they found some degree of acceptance in most fey societies.
Any offspring between a half-fey and another humanoid or giant would be born a feytouched creature.
Half-fey typically favored the life of either a bard, druid, ranger, rogue, or sorcerer. It was quite rare to see them in the role of a cleric.
* Arcturia, a half-fey of Chondathan human parentage that later became a worm that walks.
* The multidimensional World Serpent Inn notably had an all female waitstaff, comprised of half-fey gnomes that were said to have originated from the realm of Faerie.
In the , a wide array of half-fey began being spotted throughout the Moonshae Isles. They engaged in much of the violence going on at the time between fey and human ethnic groups of the Moonshae Isles, the Ffolk and Northmen, driving out all who inhabited the settlements that were along the circumference of Myrloch Vale.