Hippogriffs () were chimeric magical beasts related to griffons. However, they possessed the physical characteristics of horses, rather than lions and did not share the same intelligence.
The origins of these beasts had been lost to time.
Hippogriffs had the body of a horse, with the wings and head of a hawk or eagle. Their forelegs ended in sharp talons similar to those found in birds of prey, while their hind legs had hooves. The average hippogriff was  long, with a wingspan of , and weighed about 
Their hides were colored russet, golden tan, or come in a variety of browns with differently shaded feathers. Their beaks were either ivory or golden yellow.
Hippogriffs were capable of expressing more complex emotions as well as feeling grief and crying.
Hippogriffs were territorial, and aggressive in their defense of their herds and territory, but still animals.
Hippogriffs were extremely territorial and would attack any intruders in their realm, defending their mate or young until death. They attacked by diving and attacking with their claws and beak. Though regarded as clumsy attackers, flocks of hippogriffs could attack in concert. They could kill large prey such as bison, and were even capable of carrying it away in their talons. Being omnivores, they did not always have to resort to such tactics.
Hippogriffs were reclusive in behavior, seldom traveling far from their nest. They had an omnivorous diet, and would hunt humanoids as often as any other meal. Hippogriffs were frequently preyed upon by both dragons and wyverns. 
While some seemed to be of the opinion that female hippogriffs gave live birth,
A typical herd included one to three males, an equal number of mares and foals.
thumb|280px|A hippogriff flying about.
They live in temperate to tropical hills, in areas where it is particularly flat and barren, allowing them quick and easy access to the skies. A significant population existed in the Starspire Mountains in County Starspur in Tethyr.
In the Unapproachable East, they could be found around the Umbergoth mountain of Aglarond.
Hippogriffs were highly prized as aerial steeds. Because they were not as intelligent as griffons, a friendly attitude from the hippogriff to the rider or tamer was not required, but they still require a specialized saddle and appropriate training. The easiest way to tame a hippogriff was to steal an egg and raise it from birth, but these were not easy to obtain, due to the ferocity of their defenders.
In Zakhara, the Caliphate of Huzuz raised large numbers of hippogriffs for military service.
A hippogriff egg could fetch 1,000 gp, 2000 gp by some accounts, and young hippogriffs would sell for two to three times that price.
After the elven citadel of the Hand of the Seldarine was built circa 900 DR, the residents utilized hippogriffs as aerial support in battles defending the Seldarine. The history and practices of the magical beast breeding were described in the Hippogriff Riders of the Hand tome. The rider and their hippogriff trained tirelessly in working as a team. The hippogriffs were raised and trained from the moment they were hatched. They were trained on what to eat, how to perform complex battle maneuvers and respond to commands. The riders were taught to care for and groom their charges and how to handle them in battle. By 1281 DR, the citadel was long ruined and inhabited by the restless undead, souls of the inhabitants who fell in turmoil centuries earlier.
By 1217 DR, hippogriff cavalry was a staple of the Blade Kingdoms campaigns and skirmishes. Hippogriff troops participated in the Valley of Umbricci dispute between Colletro and Sumbria of 1217 DR.