A hippocampus () was an aquatic, horse-like creature.
They had the body of a horse, a scaly fishs tail, and fins instead of hooves or a mane.
Hippocampi could breathe either salty or fresh water and even normal air for a short period of time. They were also proficient in swimming and deep diving, moving very swiftly.
thumb|273px|A hipppocampus of the Sea of Fallen Stars.
Being wild and desiring to keep their free spirit, hippocampi were not easily tamed, but they could be trained to carry and fight with a rider. Being good creatures and skilled judges of character, they would more commonly serve good causes and refuse to assist any creature they considered evil or hostile. They were excellent racers and good mounts. and tritons
Hippocampi lived in pods, made up of one to three stallions and around eight to twenty mares. In each pod, a stallion is designated as leader through custom and/or rituals. Each stallions had its own harem that are compound with mare that had chosen to join it and remain in it for life generally.
They would often ally with tritons which, in return, would keep the hippocampis eggs in their castle.
In case of great danger or crisis, several pods could gather to join their effort against a common threat. A gathering of this sort could be compound of thousands hippocampis.
In the Unapproachable East, hippocampi could be found in the lakes of Rashemen and around the waters of Aglarond.
Hippocampi were generally known to speak their own language, as well as Aquan, though like any intelligent creature they were capable of learning others if properly trained.
Among aquatic mounts, they were considered to be one of the most prized.
Hippocampi were sometimes found as courtiers in the palace of Kalbari al-Durrat al-Amwaj ibn Jari.
* Swiftide, the mount of triton hero Keros the Wanderer.
The Happy Hippocampus was an inn in the port of Procampur.
The sea unicorn, a hippocampus with a glowing horn, was a myth among worshipers of Sashelas, as a symbol of great changes. This was especially true for the Lances of the Sea Unicorn, who were the clergy and warriors of the Sharksbane Wall.
The village of Lathtarls Lantern had a temple decorated with the mastheads of wrecked ships, some of which were known to resemble hippocampi.
Those who specialized in sea-based magic could summon a hippocampus with the spell monster summoning IV.