Horses on Toril came in a number of breeds, of varying size and demeanor. They were often used by humanoid races for riding, the pulling of carts and wagons or other forms of work.
Horses were classified in a number of different manners. Chargers, or more plainly warhorses were those horses bred to ride in battle. Light warhorses were referred to as coursers while heavy warhorses were known as destriers.
Some of the best-trained horses were trained by the elven House Korianthil.
Horses were considered sacred to many faiths of Faerûn. Warhorses were important to followers of Anhur, the Red Knight, and Tempus. Pinto and piebald horses were particularly favored by Deneir palomino horses to Waukeen. Gray-haired horses were sacred to Mask, while white ones were sacred to Milil, and chestnut-colored horses to Sune. Mystra favored donkeys, horses, and mules with blue or mismatched eyes. Intelligent horses were also native to the celestial realms of Sehanine Moonbow.
Horses were a kind of novelty for Thymari dragonborn, as such beasts werent common in Abeir. As such, horses, specially warhorses were highly valued by Thymari, who cared for them as precious friends.
A white horse was the symbol for the sun elf house of Evanara.
Horses were unknown in Maztica prior to the arrival of the Golden Legion in 1361 DR. The Golden Legion used them in battle against the Mazticans, who were shocked by them and had no experience in fighting cavalry before.  
Heavy horses
 Amphailan • Cream draft • Ishen-Charac • Kromlor • Miradans breed • Nars • Phlan cart horse • Sembian draft • Tendal
Heavy warhorses
 Amphailan Black charger  • Arkaiun courser • Cormyrean destrier • Ostorian • Tantran Destrier • Tharurr • Tuigan courser • Ishen-Charac •
Light horses
 Amphail Gray • Baldurian Rider • Barrowright farm horse • Chionthar • Cormyrean Strider • Darromar • Esmel long rider • Fox Trotter • Halruaan • Lhesperan • Mintan • Mucklestone • New Forest • Semphari • Shaaran zebra • Shire riding horse • Sosser • Steppe horse
Light warhorses
 Calimite • Dambraii • Duskwood skewbald • Emberhawk • Golden Trotter • Ixinosia Longhair • Meth • Raurin • Shadiar • Thayan Black • Vilhon riding warhorse
Other
 Amphail fancy • Carmathan Red • Nathoudi stallion • Plainsteed
Ponies
 Dales pony • Forest pony • Island pony • Orsraun pony • Mountain pony • Nether pony • Shire pony • Snowflake Mountain pony • Sunrise pony • Wild pony •
War ponies
 Hammer pony • Whiteshield
 Donkey (Uglib) • Gens DOr • Moon-horse • Pixie breed horse