(adult) (juvenile)
Humanoid gargantua () were gigantic creatures native to Kara-Tur. They were the largest humanoids found on Toril and the least intelligent gargantua.
Humanoid gargantua were massive humanoids, taller than even the tallest giants found elsewhere on Toril. They had large heads, up to  in height from top to bottom. They had unkempt hair that often grew down to their gibbous shoulders. They had a large, protruding jaw, rounded nose and massive ears. Nearly all had a pair of eyes but single-eyed specimens were reported.
Humanoid gargantua were emphatic and peaceful creatures. 
Humanoid gargantua had a long lifespan, living several hundred years. Once they reached maturity, they searched for a mate, whom they paired with for the remainder of their natural life. Once every century, a female humanoid gargantua gave birth to one or two children. 
Humanoid gargantua were able to regenerate any damage from physical attacks.
In combat, humanoid gargantua used their massive fists to inflict terrible damage. While their fingers were too large to wield weapons, they would use whole tree trunks as clubs. Their large size also allowed them to dispatch an opponent by merely stepping on them.
Humanoid gargantua were solitary creatures but when they found a mate, they lived together as a pair until one of them died. Although they lived a life of peaceful co-existence with other creatures in their territory, they were extremely aggressive towards other gargantua. When they encountered another gargantua, they fought until one of them was slain.
The diet of humanoid gargantua varied. They hunted animals for meat and foraged for fruits and vegetables. Their favorite meals were deer, bears, and horses.
Most humanoid gargantua were found in remote jungles, mountainous valleys, or islands across Kara-Tur. One particular island, the Isle of Gargantuas near Wa, was home to all varieties of gargantua. They made their lairs in large caves or grottoes. Humanoid gargantua did not collect or horde treasure.
Outside of Kara-Tur, they were known to occasionally be found in the following high peaked and wooded mountain ranges within the Hordelands - A-Ling Shan, Chigiogi, Hagga Shan, Katakoro Shan Kun-Yen Shan, Ulhai Shan, Yehimal.