| patron deity = 
| vision       = 
| activecycle  = Day
| diet         = Omnivore
| lifespan     = 50&ndash70 years
| climate      = Temperate
| terrain      = Plains, forests, hills
| location     = Border Forest, Reaching Woods, Trollbark Forest, Misty Forest, Nunwood
| language     = Hybsil, Elven , and Common
| subraces     = 
| height       = 
| length       = 
| wingspan     = 
| weight       = 
| skincolor    = 
| haircolor    = Shades of black & brown
| feathers     = 
| eyecolor     = 
| distinctions = 
| appearrefs   = 
| based        = 
| first        = Monster Cards 4 (1982)
Hybsils () were small fey creatures native to numerous forests in Faerûn.
Hybsils appeared as a cross between a small antelope and a pixie, like a centaur but with the bodies of small deer instead of horses. The color of a hybsils body varied from dark grays and browns to beige and copper. Like normal antelopes, hybsils also often had spots or stripes.
Hybsils had pointed, elegant ears with a small tuft of hair at the tips. Male hybsils had large forking antlers, and females had smaller antlers that were sometimes spiraled. The males antlers would molt in the middle of winter and grow back in spring.
Due to being hunted for their antlers, hybsils developed a knack for finding traps and snares. They were also skilled at moving silently in forests. Their fey origin gave hybsils complete immunity to poisons.
Hybasils were dedicated to nature and their families, and were known for acts of daring and bravery. They were more honest, honorable, and responsible than some other kinds of fey.
A typical hybsil diet consisted of fruits, berries, roots, and small mammals. Hybsils commonly lived up to 50 years, but hybsils with arcane abilities were known to live to 70 years of age and well beyond.
Hybsils fought with daggers, short swords, and short bows. Hybsils were known to coat their weapons and arrows with a potent sleeping poison created from rare plant juice blend. It was possible that this poison was acquired from pixies.
Many hybsils were also able to perform a number of mage and druid spells. Despite being related to pixies, hybsils were unable to turn invisible. They could, however, see invisibility at will.
A common tactic employed by hybsils was to attack in groups, often using a mirror image spell to give the impression of greater numbers. Hybsils preferred to fight from a distance, using their speed and agility to stay out of range. Although they were known to perform hit and run attacks with small blades, hybils would generally avoid hand-to-hand combat unless trying to prove themselves.
thumb|A sword-wielding hybsil.
Hybsils lived in small tribes of twenty to eighty individuals, Despite their xenophobia, some tribes did have distant but friendly relationships with neighboring groups of humans, gnomes, and other sentient creatures.
Hybsils could be found in many woodlands, plains, and forests across Faerûn.
The roles in hybsil society were mostly split between males and females, although females would take up arms if needed. Males focused on hunting, gathering, and protecting the tribe, although female hunters were not unheard of. Hunters were expected to uphold and pursue the virtue of "daring," one of the three core values of hybsil society, and to demonstrate their bravery by dashing amidst enemies for quick strikes before escaping. The females took care of young, educated, preserved traditions, maintained the tribes oral-history, and cared for the injured and sick. As a result, females were rarely encountered beyond the tribes camp. Because of their renown for being more methodical and having longer memories than males, the females of a tribe were expected to uphold the virtue of "vengeance." Finally, it was the responsibility of a tribes elders to keep track of the favors between the hybsils as well as with those outside the tribe. These elders were expected to uphold the virtue of "obligation."
Most hybsil were devout followers of the deities of nature, although their clerics were also known to specialize in the domains of luck and trickery. Hybsils often trained as druids, rangers, and rogues, and it was not unheard of to encounter hybsil sorcerers.
Due to the magical properties of their antlers, hybsils were often hunted by other sentient races. Although molted antlers were just as useful as scalped antlers, the Zhents of Zhentil Keep were known to only buy antlers that were attached to scalps. Evil wizards and alchemists would pay 1 gold piece per point on an antler, although in some cases they paid as much as 100 gold pieces for high-quality hybsil antlers.
Around 1372 DR, a hybsil named Five Point had become the leader of the second-largest druid circle in the northlands. Five Point was accompanied by three dire wolverines and an owl, and paid 13 gp for Zhentil scalps.
Marcabruk was the leader of the Autnak Tribe of hybsils who lived around Chondath. Around 1358 DR, Marcabruk and his tribe were part of an alliance who attacked a priest named Theodoric and his army of undead.