Ice golems were towering magical constructs crafted out of ice, and often resembling a humanoid warrior.
Ice golems were huge creatures carved out of glaciers or icebergs. The ice they were created from made them appear bluish-white in color, and the animation process left them covered in smoking glowing white arcane runes. The most common shape they were carved to resemble was that of an armored humanoid warrior that weighed around  and was approximately  tall.
These golems, being creatures made entirely out of ice, were able to move across frozen icy surfaces as if under the spider climb spells effects. Additionally, the ice golems were able to spray their opponents with ice shards every 12–30 seconds. These deadly projectiles dealt cold and piercing damage to everyone within  from the construct. The shards could also blind some incredibly unlucky targets.
Like other constructs, ice golems were immune to poisons, diseases, sleep, paralysis, stunning, magics that caused death, necromancy spells, and magic that affected ones mind. Their natural toughness also made them invulnerable to critical hits, ability, and energy drain. Constructs could not be healed via magic but could be repaired.
Ice golems were immune to spells that were affected by spell resistance. All fire-based spells affected ice golems normally, penetrating their magical immunity, and cold magic healed them.
Certain versions of ice golems were also immune to non-magical weapons, requiring enchantment of +2 strength or its equivalent. Weapons with fire enchantment, of course, were the exception from the rule.
Like many other golems, ice golems possessed minimal intelligence, allowing them to follow only the simplest commands and tasks. They were unable to speak. There was a small chance of a newly created ice golem to go berserk, attacking its crafter.
A guardian of Watchers Keep.
Circa 1311 DR, multiple exceptionally strong ice golems could be found within a maze-like temple to Auril in Icewind Dale, whose inhabitants were plotting the destruction of Kuldahar and Ten Towns.
Ice golems were common in the land of Rashemen. One documented encounter with them was in the . A party of drow warriors encountered an  ice golem that was transported to face them via frost magic. That construct was immune to non-magical weapons and was able to drain life force out of grappled opponents. A drow wizard named Nisstyre was able to defeat the fierce construct via the use of a fireball spell.
In the , ice golems were encountered as one of many guardians within Watchers Keep in Tethyr that guarded the entity known as the Imprisoned One.