Iridescent nagas were a largely peaceful species of naga that spent their lives wandering the world seeking hidden beauty and new discoveries, and often explored ancient, overgrown ruins. Like other nagas, they were counted amongst the serpentfolk.
Like all nagas, iridescent nagas had snake-like bodies and human-like faces. Adults were typically  in length, and weighed  Iridescent nagas possessed prism-like scales that made them appear to be many colors. They had feathers on the head in place of hair that were also brightly colored, and had a silver frill of feathers that ran down the spine.
Iridescent nagas were highly intelligent and independent, but were ultimately good-hearted creatures.
Iridescent nagas had several natural abilities, including a venom that could put people to sleep for up to 8 minutes. They could also hypnotize any creatures within  of themselves by simply swaying in place. Additionally, they themselves were immune to all mind-influencing effects.
Like other nagas, iridescent nagas possessed a natural understanding of magic, and most were sorcerers of at least moderate power. They typically knew the cantrips daze, detect magic, light, mage hand, message, open/close, and read magic, and the spells color spray, comprehend languages, expeditious retreat, magic missile, shield, eagles splendor, mirror image, scorching ray, fly, and lightning bolt.
Iridescent nagas preferred to avoid fighting, but if combat broke out then they sought high ground from which they could use their hypnotism and spells.
Iridescent nagas preferred to live in temperate forests. On Toril, they were known to live in the deeper areas of the Chondalwood, near the headwaters of the Nagaflow river.
Like all nagas, they worshiped Shekinester, in particular her guise as the Seeker.
Iridescent nagas were one of the five major naga species that formed after the fall of Mhairshaulk.
Around , increasing numbers of iridescent nagas were traveling to the southern regions of Cormanthyr to challenge the Cult of the Dark Naga, and to the jungles of Chult to fight the spirit nagas of the Chultengar.