| weight       = 
| wingspan     = 
| skincolor    = Brown-green, grey
| haircolor    = 
| eyecolor     = 
| feathers     = 
| distinctions = 
| first        = 
Jit snakes were large, dangerous, and venomous snakes that dwelled in Cormanthor.
Jit snake were sizable hunting snakes of brown-green or grey color. Their young reached  long and as thick as an adult boar of Cormanthor and had distinctly grayer scales compared to the adults in their first year of life. Jit snakes had fangs with venom canals and terrifying yellow eyes that turned red when agitated.
Jit snakes were known for their venom that left a humanoid-sized creature weak and imprecise. When observed, the victims of jits venom appeared almost as if extremely drunk. Following the drunk-like movements, the victim was incapacitated with fevers, plagued with vivid dreams, and unable to wake up for weeks (up to a month) after the bite.
Smaller than medium-sized creatures often entered into a comatose state after the bite, and larger creatures, like a cow or an ox suffered lethargic slowed movements, unsteadiness, and clouded mind.
Unlike many other snakes, jits did not swallow their prey whole, instead biting them into chunks. They could, however, expand their bodies to accommodate especially large pieces of food.
Like other snakes, jits were slow and lethargic after feeding using all their energy to digest their unfortunate prey while hiding in the safety of a cave or a lair. Before actually consuming the slain creature, jit snake usually made sure it was safe in the area, killing any other creature that posed danger.
The elves of Myth Drannor hunted the jits and dramatically reduced their numbers due to the danger they posed. Following he fall of the city, the creatures from other planes, devils and demons that plagued the area in the early 1300s DR found jit snakes a rare delicacy and further damaged the population.
According to the avatar of Moander, jit snakes were either extinct in Cormanthor by 1357 DR. 
Elminster claimed that jit snakes were not extinct. Even though they were hunted close too extinction in Cormanthor, they could still be found in deep Chultan jungles and forests to the east from Ulgarth, and some other ares of Toril.