Krakentua were enormous spirits that terrorized the more remote sea coasts around the continent of Kara-Tur.
Krakentua had the body of a human and the head of a kraken. They stood – tall, often wearing luxuriant silken robes in rich colors. Their skin was dark green and leathery. Seven deft and supple tentacles extended from their head, about  long, with a chitinous beak hidden beneath them. It had huge red eyes with black pupils, and red mist pouring from its skin.
A krakentua often wielded human-sized weapons on its tentacles, though even without weapons those were dangerous enough, as they could both strike and whips and wrap around limbs. They were also capable of attacking with their fists, a comparatively feeble attack, or simply trampling foes this attack made effective use of their bulk, leading to mind-boggling damage. They were also capable of spitting a stream of cherry milk, or exhaling a cloud of blood-red mist.
Female krakentua had stronger tentacles, and the ability to track intelligent beings by sending them dreams. They also had the ability to fly at modest speed for up to 10 hours a day they left a trail of dead octopuses in their wake when they did. Females could also constantly detect evil, detect good, detect lie, detect thoughts, and use clairaudience at will.
Krakentua dwelled in remote, deserted reaches of Kara-Tur, but they could be found in coasts, near civilized zones. They had no affinity for treasure, but were obsessed with maintaining a concentration of slaves to worship and honor it. They enforced this enslavement not through mental coercion, but through mere fear of retribution. Males attracted 10-50 slaves, while females could attract up to 1000.
They reproduced asexually, the female losing an eighth tentacle when she reached the age of 1000 years old. Up to four buds would form on the tentacle each would swell to about  in diameter before hatching a new Krakentua.
While they consumed any kind of vegetable matter, they particularly relished cherries and cherry tree milk slaves were adequate for supplying those.
A number of rampaging krakentua destroyed the city of Inupras in .
*Krakentua (Isle of Gargantuas)
*Krakentua (Ito-jo)
*Krakentua (Shinkintin)