| length       = 
| wingspan     = 
| weight       = 
| skincolor    = 
| haircolor    = Dirty ivory (generally)Black, brown, dull red (Occasionally)
| hairstyles   = 
| feathers     = 
| eyecolor     = 
| build        = 
| distinctions = 
| appearrefs   = 
| first        = Giantcraft
| based        = 
| histrefs     = 
Krotter were a type of bovine creature endemic to arctic regions.
Krotter resembled very large, muscular, or bulky yaks with sharp humps. Their fur ranged from dirty white to black to red, and was thick, stringy, and so long that it hung down their bodies to the ground. They had notably small, cloven hooves. Their heads sported a pair of small, jagged antlers, and very thin eyes hidden under several layers of fat that protected them from either snow glare or debris.
Krotters were relatively quiet creatures, only making the occasional whine, grunt, or snort.
Krotter did not possess a great degree of intellect, even for beasts. However, they were skilled at avoiding common traps and would alert each other of potential dangers. They were also noted for being a remarkably cooperative species, and did not seek to establish dominance over others in their herds.
When traveling in herds, they were known to make a distinct high-pitched whine to warn the rest of the herd whenever a potential predator was spotted. In practice, this meant that every single member of the herd would make this noise as it spotted any living creature.
An individual krotter was not very dangerous. If threatened, they could do little more than kick with their forelimbs or perhaps attempt a bite, and they tired easily. That said, their sheer size and bulk was cause for concern. This was especially true in groups, however, as attacking even a single member of a herd could trigger a massive, crushing stampede that the beasts instinctually knew to direct toward the nearest threat. Once a stampede began, it tended to keep going forward until all danger was either trampled or left behind.
Krotter could be found in cold regions of the far North, and were common in the Ice Spires. They were very hardy, and had developed may adaptations to their harsh arctic environment. For instance, they had a high rate of reproduction, generally giving birth to a calf almost every year, and these calfs would grow to almost half their final size by the end of their first year of life. Krotter were also adept at finding vegetation to eat even in harsh conditions, and had an excellent sense of direction even in snowstorms. In order to conserve heat, they were known to sleep standing up while tightly packed together.
Krotter were domesticated and herded by a number of arctic people, primarily by the many giant tribes of the Ice Spires. They were considered such an intrinsic part of life and diet for the giant tribes of this region that any drop in their population would consequently lead to a drop in the number of giants.
Krotter meat was largely unappetizing, however giants did not seem to mind it and many humanoids were known to tolerate it.
Those who domesticated krotter were known to use their thick hides to craft parkas, tents, and a variety of other arctic gear. Their fat was also considered an ideal fuel source for lanterns and campfires. 
In the mid-to-late 14 century DR, krotters were among the primary livestock of the hill giant camp of Chief Groote in the Ice Spires, with most of the hill giants in the camp sleeping and working in thick tents crafted from their hides. They were also an important source of food for the regions frost giants, fire giants, and ogres.
In the late 15 century DR, krotter were an important livestock in Vaasa, and were raised on ranches near Maur-Eturo.