Laraken, also called magic-drainers, were a species of large, magic-devouring outsiders from the plane of Nishrek.
The laraken had large, round, glistening yellow bodies with two fleshy tentacles that came out from either side. They constantly kept themselves moist, and when on the Prime Material plane would rarely leave swamps or marshlands except to feed.
They were distant cousins of nishruu.
Larakens hated intelligent life, especially wizards. They unfailingly tried to attack any humanoids they encountered, especially if they beleived there to be a spellcaster or someone possessing a magic item. However, they would never pursue a target onto dry land, or otherwise enter a dry area. Even the humid swamps of the Shining South were somewhat dry for their liking.
Laraken were naturally able to sense magic, which was useful because absorbing magic was their main source of food. In addition to their abilities regarding magic, laraken were able to create and use dimension doors at will, appearing to simply wink out of existince.
If a laraken lost one of its tentacles, it could use some of the magical energies it had absorbed to regrow that tentacle.
A laraken fed on and absorbed magical energy. They also had a naturally high resistance to magic. If any spells cast at them bypassed their defenses, it would be absorbed and the laraken would gain it as a spell-like ability. Furthermore, when a laraken struck a spellcaster, the latter would lose their most potent memorized spell which again, could be cast by the former as a spell-like ability.
They also fed on the magical enchantments of weapons and items. This included magic items charges, their inherent enchantments, and even the level enhancement of most weapons and armor. Consuming the magic from items would only make the laraken more robust and fight with more ferocity. However, this magic-draining consumption did not work against arcane spells or items that drew their power from the Shadow Weave.
The only known means by which a laraken was able to reproduce on the Material Plane was to absorb a regenerate spell and then to lose a tentacle, which would sprout a new laraken. Given these very specific conditions, they were very rare.
Laraken were brought to the Prime Material plane by the great conjurer Akhlaur from their home plane, and continued to prefer to dwell near to the connection to the Elemental Plane of Water present in the Akhlaur Swamp.