Leonin were proud feline lion-like humanoids from the plane of Theros, shielded from the rest of the multiverse by its gods. They were virtually unheard of on the world of Toril.
290x290px
Leonin were muscular and powerful humanoids, towering over a human, growing beyond , sometimes reaching . Their bodies were covered in tawny fur, their hands ended in sharp retractible feline claws, their feet were cat-like, and their tails were long, covered in the same fur color as the rest of their bodies. The leonin species were sexually dimorphic, with males growing thick manes of various colors, from gold to black, while females had short fur, similar to lions. All leonin were capable of unleashing fearsome thunderous roars.
Leonin were known for their confident and prideful personality, as well as the social structure of nomadic lion-like pride in the shining plains of Oreskos. Much of the leonin people lived in defiance of the gods of Theros and rarely interacted with other races. They loved brawls and fighting, reinforced by a brash and impulsive personality, quick to anger but quick to forgive. They took offense to criticisms or intolerance. Leonin loved verbal fighting as much as they did physical conflicts. They often playfully brawled and wrestled and engaged in aggressive debates to exercise mind and body. 
Leonins most notable qualities were their constitution and brute strength. They could see in the dark within  perfectly in shades of gray.
Yanna, the unlucky plane-hopping leonin.|290x290px
In the late 1480s DR, a channeling of power from across the planes occurred in the Icewind Dale region of Toril, potentially due to the Everlasting Rime or some other meddling on the goddess Aurils part. This meddling with planar magic caused some creatures from other worlds to be dragged into Icewind Dale. This included a female leonin called Yanna, who was watching her planes sun set over Oreskos when she was transported. While chasing after a pack of satyrs in that region, she ran into the cleric Celeste and explained her situation.