| refs3e       = 
| size2e       = 
| alignment2e  = 
| refs2e       = 
| size1e       = 
| alignment1e  = 
| refs1e       = 
| patron deity = Yondalla
| vision       = 
| lifespan     = 105&ndash200 years
| location     = 
| language     = Common, Halfling
| subraces     = 
| climate      = Warm
| terrain      = Plains
| genrefs      = 
| skincolor    = Ruddy
| haircolor    = Black
| eyecolor     = Brown, black
| hairstyles   = Straight hair
| distinctions = 
| form1        = Male
| appearance1  =
| weight       = 
| hairstyles   = Long sideburns
| form2        = Female
| appearance2  =
| weight       = 
| appearrefs   = 
| based        = 
| first        = 
|othernames=Hairfoot‎ halfling
Lightfoot halflings, also known as hairfeet or Luiren halflings, were the most common type of halflings seen in the world, in large part due to their famous wanderlust, which set them apart from the relatively sedentary ghostwise and strongheart halflings.In 1 and 2 editions, lightfoots were known as "hairfeet". The name was changed for 3 edition, when D&Ds halflings were further changed to be less like J.R.R. Tolkiens hobbits. Lightfoots were most comfortable living alongside other cultures, even adopting their cultural practices, right down to their deities.
The average lightfoot halfling stood around  and weighed around . Lightfoots displayed the same range of skin tones, hair colors, and eye hues as humans. Though they were most frequently seen to have brown or black hair and black, brown, or hazel eyes. Their skin also typically had a ruddy complexion.
Facial hair was relatively rare, with men at most sporting long sideburns or the occasional beard, and women sometimes sporting short sideburns. Mustaches were extremely rare. When not adventuring or entertaining others, lightfoots preferred to wear simple, well-made clothing that was comfortable to wear, yet looked attractive, favoring those with bright colors.
Lightfoots were among the most affable and good-natured halflings. They were typically curious about others and very open to sharing about themselves. Altogether these aspects of their personalities kindled fast courtships and friendships with others. These were often brief, for most lightfoots innately felt a sense of wanderlust that compelled them to not stay in one place for too long. Though lightfoots were very loyal and such relationships were genuine, some felt the way they so deftly parted ways made those friendships disingenuous.
Due to their personalities many races stereotyped lightfoots as being fickle and flighty in nature, being unreliable and easily distracted. However, despite the impression they gave such races, these halflings were very cunning, opportunistic, and resourceful individuals. 
Lightfoot societies did not invest in magic nearly as much as strongheart halflings, but there were still many spellcasters among them. In terms of spells, lightfoots tended to favor those that offered great mobility &mdash expeditious retreat, fly, and haste to name a few &mdash or those that weakened their foes. Evards black tentacles and a variety of spells with polymorph-effects were also common among their spellcasters.
Lightfoots that specialized in travel-based magic became known as hin wandermages. In addition to those previously listed travel spells, hin wandermages typically knew the following &mdash air walk, endurance, ethereal jaunt, etherealness, find the path, freedom of movement, gate, mount, open/close, phantom steed, plane shift, refuge, shadow walk, teleport, teleport without error, teleportation circle, transport via plants, water breathing, wind walk, and word of recall.
Tallfellow halflings, a variety of lightfoot, were found on both Toril and the planet of Oerth,In early Dungeons & Dragons settings the tallfellows were just one of the three standard subraces of halfling and thus were mentioned in Forgotten Realms sources on rare occasions. The 5-edition Players Handbook retconned them as being the Greyhawk settings equivalent to the lightfoot. and were noted for being taller than other halflings and elven-like.
thumb|right|274x274px|A lightfoot rogue employs her skills in stealth.
Lightfoots preferred to fight defensively and were skilled in the art of stealth. Their tactics were similar to elves, though they emphasized being concealed and taking cover more than mobility, taking shots at their foes from afar.
Due to their skill-sets, this sub-race of halflings were often bards, rogues, warslinger snipers, though the profession of fighter was equally encouraged and some even took to being adventuring druids.
Warslinger snipers were typically the first line of defense for their communities, while those who up the life of a ranger were known to protect and act as guides for traveling bands of halflings in the Sword Coast and elsewhere.
Lightfoots often wore studded leather armor. They typically fought with longswords as well as light crossbows, shortbows, and slings of masterwork quality. They often fired skiprocks from their slings, though were just as likely to toss them by hand. Due to their size, there were many weapons that lightfoots could not wield effectively.
Hornblade weapons were particularly associated with lightfoot halflings. Common magic items used by lightfoots were bags of holding, carpets of flying, Hewards handy haversacks, any kind of magical boots,
Lightfoots formed tight-knit communities, especially in the cities of other races. Some traveled in small bands, often switching members when they come across another band, while others traveled in clans made up of several extended families. Members of such communities often packed up and collectively moved together to locations that offered new or better opportunities. Some communities just moved regularly, embracing a nomadic lifestyle. When communities traveled they typically did so in wagons or boats.
Lightfoots adored keeping pets, for the sake of both protection and companionship. They often kept some form of large hound. Another common animal kept were foxes, who they admired for their stealthiness and cunning.
Lightfoots typically excelled in professions related to traveling, such as cartwrighting, handling of pack animals, navigating, and sailing. Those who who spent their lives wandering tended to learn many of the skills associated with these tasks along their travels. Some lightfoots were known to take up the profession of a craftsman, entertainer, or merchant.
Much like other halflings, lightfoots were an omnivorous people. They loved breads, fruits, vegetables, and the occasional pheasant. They were very skilled at foraging,
Lightfoots typically lived in warm plains. They were, by nature, wanderers, and so could rarely be found tied down to one place for very long. Typically, lightfoot halfling clans moved from one area to another rapidly, staying in one place rarely more than a year or two. There were exceptions to this rule, however, and in spite of their curiosity and adventurousness, some halflings were drawn to their ancestral homeland of Luiren before its destruction. Others merely settled more permanently in some foreign land, usually human. Still, it could not truly be said that lightfoot halflings had any land of their own instead, they called the whole world their home.
In terms of regions beyond Luiren, lightfoot halflings were often found in the lands of northwest Faerûn, areas of the Shining South just south of the Shaar, in the Purple Hills of Tethyr, the Sword Coast They were also the only sub-race of halfling to live in the Unapproachable East.
In terms of particular nations, lightfoots could be found in eastern Aglarond, eastern Amn, and Turmish. In northwest Faerûn they were widely scattered in human cities, particularly Everlund, Silverymoon, and Waterdeep. In the Sword Coast they were often often in Baldurs Gate, Berdusk, and Secomber. They were also quite common near the human communities north of Luiren.
Lightfoots typically knew how to speak Common and Halfling. Those who spent their lives wandering picked up many regional and widely spread languages. Some even knew how to speak Elvish and Goblin. The majority of their sub-race as a whole were literate.
Like other halflings, the patron deity of lightfoots was the goddess Yondalla. Her faith was popular among both sedentary and nomadic lightfoots. The latter also tended to favor the halfling god Brandobaris, as they considered his outlook on life to be realistic and good-humored. Cyrrollalee was widely popular in later generations, taking to her promises of a new homeland and greater respect from other races.
Out of all halflings, lightfoots were the most likely to worship gods outside of the halfling pantheon.
thumb|A lightfoot halfling warlock, his shiny ball, and furry rat.
Due to their wanderlust nature, lightfoots could often be seen dwelling alongside other races. They were adept at fitting into most communities, including elven, dwarven, human, and gnomish. There they did their best to make themselves seem valuable and welcomed. They were most frequently found living in or around human societies, as the ever-changing nature of that races societies allowed for easy exploitation.
Some lightfoots assimilated into the communities they settled in, partially or wholly adopting the local majority races beliefs and views about the world. Those who spent their lives wandering often held an amalgamation of outlooks from the places they had been. But some acted antithetical to how one would expect of them, adamantly retaining their distinctive lightfoot point of view as they saw it as being what set them apart from other races and halfling sub-races.
* Pawldo, a hero of the Darkwalker War
* Regis, one of the Companions of the Hall
* Sengal, a feral druid of Malar afflicted with werewolf lycanthropy.
* Spider Parrafin, the reincarnation of Regis
Most lightfoot halflings in the Realms could trace their lineage back to a tribe that ruled a great kingdom in the land of Luiren. 
In -62 DR, the war chief of a lightfoot tribe in the Luiren forest of Lluirwood allied with a strongheart hunter named Chad against the lands local ghostwise. This culminated in the Hin Ghostwars. Many within the tribe were horrified by the actions taken by Chad and his fellow stronghearts during this conflict. Thus, following the Hin Ghostwars the members of this tribe and a majority of Luirens lightfoot population emigrated all across the North, Northwest, and Northeastern reaches of Faerûn. Some scholars speculated that they were unable to find a specific area to call their new homeland, over time culminating in their races penchant for wandering.
In 1372 DR, a group of lightfoots living in the Underdark city of Deepburrow allied with gold dwarf spelunkers to map out an underground passage between the city and the Great Rift.