Logokron devils, sometimes just shortened to logokrons, were greater baatezu devils of the Nine Hells known for their practice of true name magic, which they used to cruelly control other creatures.
Logokron devils were  tall, four-armed humanoids that weighed approximately . Their wide tongues were several feet long and always hung out of their mouth, revealing a complex, eldritch symbol tattooed upon them—a tattoo painful to look at with non-baatezu eyes. Despite their lolling tongues, logokrons were capable of speaking clearly aloud.
Logokrons were the embodiment of the evil, malicious schemer, clever and cruel creatures with a penchant for long-term plans and the patient persistence to see their plots through. They sought out the true names of powerful creatures, often other fiends or heroes of the Material Plane, and then used their powers to dominate them. They delighted in doing this to their enemies, and might just torment them rather than enslave them.
Logokron devils were uniquely adept in the use of true name magic. They commonly had access to utterances that wounded the foe, provided foresight, effected courage, and helped find hidden truths. Their own true names were often obscured and could cause backlash to anyone trying to use them.
Apart from true name magic, logokrons had a few other magical abilities. The sigil on their tongues was a constantly active symbol of pain that only worked on non-baatezu. Once per day they could summon a few barbed devils or an ice devil with about a three in four chance of success. Though relatively slow on foot, they were somehow capable of a quicker flight and could teleport without error (as well as create a major image) at will.
Logokrons observed their foes from a safe distance whenever possible, having their minions to test their capabilities before using true name magic on them. Some were made to retreat, and those who remained were wracked with utterances of pain and harm.
Logokrons were known to equip themselves with a thundering halberd for each pair of hands and wear jet-black plate mail armor.
350px|A logokron suffers from researching the true name of one too powerful.
Logokrons were feared and served by lesser devils, who performed all manner of services for them, such as spying, fighting, or menial tasks like delivering messages. Among these fearful servants were barbed devils, who most logokrons sought to have one or more of attending to them at any given time, a group known as a cabal. But while logokrons surrounded themselves with minions, they regarded others who practiced truename magic, including other logokrons, as rivals, and so treated them with particular hostility.
Logokrons were seen as hideous abominations by word archons for their perversion of true name magic, which they treated as sacred, and so were attacked on sight by the celestials.
Logokrons resided in the Nine Hells, but such was their eager study of true names that they often traveled to the Material Plane to "research" the ones they already knew. Many ventured to Toril in hopes of using its rich resources to further their ambitions back home, and they occasionally took up residence there either to advance their grander schemes or as part of a pact they made.
* Kulaga, a spymaster logokron from Cania interested in the collection of warlocks.