Magma hurlers were one of the two more humanoid-shaped species of magma beast.
The bodies of these elementals were composed entirely of molten lava or stone. Their skin was a hardened black crust, while their joints and gaping maws displayed glowing red active magma. They had hunched shoulders that were lined with jagged protrustions and their arms ended in flattend, almost scoop-like hooks. Smoke was being regularly belched forth from their mouths.
On average a magma hurler stood around  and weighed around .
Magma hurlers were one of the more intelligent species of magma beast.
Like all magma beasts, hurlers were immune to the effects of petrification, had some resistance to fire, and were particularly vulnerable to cold-based spells and abilities.
As befitting their name, magma hurlers fought by spitting balls of magma or molten rock into their hands and then hurled them at foes as far as  away. They disliked close quarters combat and would try to avoid combatants trying to get closer to them.
Following Halaster Blackcloaks death in 1375 DR, an inferno spider and a trio of magma hurlers crossed over into the Prime Material plane through a portal that opened in the Belkrams Fall area of Undermountain and proceeded to make their lair there.
Following the Spellplague, many magma hurlers made their way through elemental vortices and planar rifts into volcanic regions of Toril and its Underdark. magma hurlers could be found inhabiting Mount Hotenow.
From the top left clockwise magma strider, magma brute, magma claw, and magma hurler.
These elmentals lived largely solitary lives.
Like all magma beasts, hurlers were capable of speaking the Primordial language.
Magma hurlers could be bribed with regular offerings of food. They occasionally bullied claws and striders into fighting alongside them. Hurlers themselves were often lured into serving fire archons, fire giants, salamanders, and occasionally even an eye of flame.
Like all magma beasts, a hurler could subsist on merely clay, ores, and even minor elementals. Though they preferred to hunt and feast upon organic creatures, savoring the taste of burned flesh. Whenever they killed a humanoid they would devour them whole, including their equipment.
These creatures were native to the Elemental Chaos, but could also be found on the Elemental Plane of Fire.