| size3e       = Medium
| type3e       = Outsider
| subtype3e    = Shapechanger
| alignment3e  = Always Chaotic evil
| challenge3e  = 4
| refs3e       = 
| size2e       = Medium
| alignment2e  = Chaotic evil
| refs2e       = 
| size1e       = 
| alignment1e  = 
| refs1e       = 
| patron deity = Bane, Gargauth, Shar
| vision       = Darkvision
| activecycle  = Any
| diet         = Omnivore
| lifespan     = Immortal
| location     = Plane of Shadow
| intelligence = Average to Genius
| language     = Common, Malaugrym
| subraces     = 
| climate      = Any
| terrain      = Any land, underground
| genrefs      = 
| height       = 
| length       = 
| wingspan     = 
| weight       = 
| skincolor    = Brown to green
| haircolor    = 
| feathers     = 
| eyecolor     = Golden
| distinctions = Long tentacles tipped with sharp hooks, beaked mouth
| appearrefs   = 
| based        = 
| first        = 
| histref      = 
Malaugryms (), also known as shadowmasters and collectively as Clan Malaug, were immortal and evil shapeshifters who clashed with many of Faerûns greatest heroes, most notably Elminster Aumar.
These shapeshifters were superior to many if not most other races both physically and mentally. In their natural state—which they almost never revealed—they appeared as a spherical mass of rubbery flesh about  in diameter. This form had three yellow eyes, a beaked mouth, and three tentacles, each tipped with a hooked claw. They hovered in midair with their tentacles constantly writhing.
When transformed into the shape of a humanoid or other creature, that forms eyes would have an extremely faint yellow glow. This was often the only indication that the person or creature was in fact a malaugrym.
Malaugryms were highly manipulative, nearly universally motivated by a desire for power, They possessed an uncanny, malicious intelligence and a remarkable charismatic presence (despite the abhorrent appearance of their natural form), which when combined with their shapechanging abilities, made it almost trivial for them to infiltrate any social structure they wished. While they could adopt any form, they tended to maintain consistent personalities across their forms, and the characters they played to blend into society tended to have similar interests or backgrounds.
They were compulsively cruel and sadistic. and preferred to eat live prey. They were also extravagantly hedonistic, seeking out the most outlandish pleasures they could acquire, and were ruthlessly vengeful when denied or deprived of their desired comforts.
As powerful and immortal creatures, the average malaugryms greatest fear was not death so much as the loss of their memory or of their cognitive acuity.
Malaugryms were said to be perfect shapeshifters, able to freely adopt the forms of any creature, object, or person they wanted,
Malaugrym retained their ability to fly even while transformed into flightless creatures.
They were astoundingly agile, far beyond the ken of a human, as well as being somewhat stronger and more hardy than one. Their remarkable durability was in part due to their tactic of constantly shapeshifting during battle, often very subtly, in order to move around or hide vulnerable sites or vital organs. Even outside of combat, many would regularly manipulate their bodies in this way in order to make themselves more difficult targets for ambushes. Their primary goal in most fights was to conceal their true nature, and in most cases they preferred to flee rather than be forced to reveal their true forms. 
Malaugryms were notoriously quick to recover from wounds, which would seal up on their own with time. They were furthermore impervious to all weapons save those which were magical or silver. Blows from silver weapons were particularly devastating, and left wounds the malaugrym could not heal naturally, instead requiring magical attention. Malaugryms were also resistant to magical attacks, particularly from less experienced casters, and were further immune to all poisons.
Malaugryms often had combat training as wizards, although it was not unheard of to encounter sorcerers or clerics. In battle, they would make use of these skills when they wished to conceal their identifies as shapeshifters. Otherwise, they would morph parts of their bodies into tentacles or pseudopods to strike at their enemies. 
Despite how formidable they were as individuals, most malaugrym preferred to avoid direct conflict until victory was assured, instead sending minions or pawns to engage their enemies and using traps or illusions to beguile their foes.
Owing to their human heritage, malaugrym could not be banished or removed from the Material Plane like a traditional extraplanar creature.
thumb|300px|Three maraulgryms in various states of transformation.Malaugryms desired power over the Material Plane, and schemed to conquer all of Faerûn They were particularly keen to find magic that could help them traverse the planes or which could ensure their continued immortality. They had few&mdashif any&mdashallies, even among each other, 
While they sought power and food on the Material Plane, their main base of operations was the Castle of Shadows on the Plane of Shadow, however they were not native to that plane.
Malaugryms were never a numerous race, and were more akin to a large family, sometimes referred to as Clan Malaug. Family or no, Malaugryms desire for power meant that they were constantly undermining and trying to one-up each other, sometimes killing their rivals or superiors or even waging centuries-long vendettas against each other.
While powerful individual malaugrym were respected and feared by their peers, they technically had no hierarchy save for the one recognized as their leader, known as the Shadowmaster. This title was held by whichever malaugrym had been a strong enough spellcaster to claim it from its previous owner, and new challenges for the title were issued every few decades. It was suggested that only the Shadowmaster, or perhaps those spellcasters strong enough to become Shadowmaster, possessed the power of interplanar travel necessary to reach the Material Plane. As such, malaugryms were constantly trying to gain favor with the Shadowmaster in hopes of being able to pursue their goals on the Material Plane, making the Shadowmaster the only being with the influence to convince malaugryms to cooperate.
Somewhat confusingly, any malaugrym could call themselves a "shadowmaster" without actually holding the position, and many of them did.
In general, malaugryms were not particularly devout even when they did worship the gods, although a rare few served as clerics of evil or chaotic deities. In particular, they sometimes would follow Bane, whom they respected as an aspirational version of the ideal ruler, or Shar, who they venerated in her capacity as a goddess of loss. In the late 14 century DR, they were also known to venerate Gargauth, while in the late 15 century DR, they were known to respect Asmodeus but were hesitant to worship him outright.
Out of fear of divine retribution, malaugryms usually refrained from impersonating important religious figures.
Malaugryms did not have sexes and could freely adopt whatever traits they wanted. Individuals often informally adopted a single gender as part of their preference for maintaining consistent personalities across their different shapes.
To reproduce, malaugryms would adopt a form necessary to mate with a human, and then steal away with the newborn to be raised as a new malaugrym. While malaugryms did age and could grow old, they could not die of old age. Instead, older malaugryms were killed by younger ones eager to usurp their power. In general, the only sign that a malaugrym was getting old was gradual memory loss and a decline of its cognitive ability.
Malaugryms spoke Common as well as their own language. Malaugrym names were generally constructed around a single syllable that represented or referred to an important ancestor. For instance, many names ended in "-luth" to denote a specific influential common ancestor.
Malaugryms were omnivores, and were in fact capable of eating nearly any organic substance. However, they preferred to feed on living creatures, particularly humanoids, and would do so by sticking their hooked tentacles down a victims throat before using their shapeshifting abilities to crawl inside to devour it from within. On occasions when they used utensils (or any other tools), they avoided items made of silver.
There were no races or organizations on friendly terms with the malaugryms. They disdained short-lived creatures, distrusted and feared long-lived creatures, and actively sought to humiliate and crush any doppelganger they encountered. They were longstanding enemies of Elminster and the Harpers, the drow-dragons of Chaulssin and the Netherese of Thultanthar.
The legends of the malaugryms claimed that their race was descended from the human wizard Malaug, said to be the first person to enter the Plane of Shadow. He became warped by shadow magic, gradually transforming into the first of the malaugrym. The malaugryms further believed that their races "mother" was an alien being from the Far Realm encountered by Malaug in his travels. Malaugryms were thus eager to travel to the Far Realm to search for this supposed parent and, in doing so, to acquire more power. Although they dwelt in the Plane of Shadow, malaugryms considered the Far Realm to be their true home.
Most folk of Faerûn had never heard of the malaugryms as their existence was very secretive. The first recorded instance of malaugryms living in Faerûn was in the third century DR when a young Elminster clashed with the malaugrym Undarl. This was, in fact, Malaug in disguise, and the malaugrym progenitor was never seen again following his defeat at Elminsters hands.
Malaugryms were next encountered in the , by the Church of Vhaeraun, which discovered that they had infiltrated the leadership of the drow-dragons of Chaulssin. This led to the founding of House Jaezred, an order of assassins dedicated to eliminating the shapeshifters, and the infiltrators were killed in a single bloody day.
They reappeared again in the , and attacked Elminster for sport and to plunder his treasures. Elminster slew one of his attackers, and this act drew such astonishment and fury from the malaugryms that they dubbed him "the Enemy" and swore to destroy him. and only ended when Khelben assumed control over the current Shadowmasters mind and convinced the remaining malaugryms that continued fighting would be too costly. Although the war ended, the Harp of Stars was lost or destroyed before it could be recovered and learned from. Thanks to this, the malaugrym never revealed their true forms throughout the entire Harpstar Wars, and for another 150 years, scholars believed that they were just a peculiar clan of shapeshifting humans.
Following the Harpstar Wars, Elminster established planar wards intended to alert him if any malaugryms returned to Toril. with another 100 dwelling at the Castle of Shadows.
The onset of the Spellplague in the  had two important ramifications for the malaugryms. First, it led to the transformation of the Plane of Shadow into the Shadowfell, which made their usual means of travelling to and from the Material Plane much more difficult. Second, the Spellplague severed the malaugryms access to the Far Realm, leaving them unable to travel "home." Following this, their overall numbers began steadily decreasing even as more and more found their way to the Material Plane. By the late 15 century DR, it was estimated that at least twenty individuals were present in Faerûn, although it seemed that each one merely pursued their own ends rather than attempting to work in a coordinated fashion.
*Amarune, a rogue malaugrym active mostly in Waterdeep in the 14 and 15 centuries DR.
*Arathluth, a magically disinclined malaugrym active in Amn and the Sword Coast in the 14 and 15 centuries DR.
*Bheloris, involved in the plot to eliminate Elminster in 1358 DR.
*Bralatar, a close ally of fellow malaugrym Lorgyn. Was killed in 1358 DR.
*Dhalgrave, the Shadowmaster during the malaugrym activities of 1357 DR and 1358 DR.
*Dlagim, one of only 3 out of 40 malaugryms to survive a battle with Elminster at the Castle of Shadows.
*Emmergluth, a cowardly malaugrym active in Sembia in the mid-to-late 14 century DR.
*Huerbara, the Shadowmaster who succeeded Dhalgrave in 1358 DR.
*Kostil, involved in the plot to eliminate Elminster in 1358 DR.
*Lorgyn, active in the Eastern Heartlands following 1358 DR.
*Lunquar, active in Sembia in the mid&ndash13 century DR.
*Luthvaerynn, active in Telflamm in the late 15 century DR.
*Malaug, the progenitor of the malaugrym race.
*Orglym, believed to be in control of a small trade and spy network out of Selgaunt in the mid-to-late 14 century DR.
*Sarth, active mostly around the Sword Coast as of the mid-to-late 14 century DR.
*Seriadne, served as a simbarch of Aglarond as of 1479 DR, making her likely the most influential malaugrym of the 15 century DR.
*Taluth, active in Westgate as of the mid-to-late 14 century DR.
*Undarl, an identity assumed by Malaug in the 3 century DR.
*Yabrant, involved in the plot to eliminate Elminster in 1358 DR.