Merfolk (  ) were aquatic humanoids with upper body, arm and head of a human and legs resembling the tail of a fish.
A merfolk person had the upper body, arms, and head of a fair-featured human from the waist up and instead of legs they had a fish-like tail from the hips down. Also distinguishing them from humans were the gills slits along their necks, the slight webbing between their fingers, and their pupils exhibiting an ice blue or pale silver tone.
On average, mermen grew to be around  in length and had broader shoulders, while mermaids grew only slightly shorter. On average they weighed around  and it was unheard of for merfolk to become overweight, due to their active lifestyles, and possessed greater strength than their physiques would imply.
The coloration of their eyes, hair, and skin varied as much as those of humans, as did the coloration of their fins and scales &mdash some colorations being more common in certain areas. Merfolk across Faerûn exhibited all the varied skin tones of the continents humans. They tended towards pale pink or tan, though some around the Alamber Sea and Vilhon Reach had darker tones. The most common hair colors were light brown or blond, as these helped them to better blend in to their environment. The rarest of hair colors were blue and silver &mdash those born with either were considered to have great destinies and so would be raised and watched over by their entire clan.
The coloration of merfolk fins and scales ranged from a deep kelly green to a brilliant silver, though some colorations outside of this could be found. Some Serôsian merfolk exhibited brighter colors and even scales that were striped or speckled. While some merfolk in the Alamber Sea or Vilhon Reach had scales that ranged from copper to golden. During winter seasons, merfolk tails shed their old scales.
In terms of clothing, merfolk often adorned themselves with shells and coral.
Known to be playful creatures, merfolk would often prank adventurers they came across. Their levels of mischief could come across as cruel, but not overly malicious. 
A mermaid warrior riding a 251x251px
Merfolk were generally known to wield crossbows, daggers, javelins, nets, and tridents. They also used grappling hooks when performing attacks on the surface dweller ships.
The earliest evidence of merfolk in the Inner Sea, some carvings in undersea caves, were dated to around .
In , the merfolk of Thalorlyn declared themselves independent and established the First Kingdom of Hmur. Two years later, Aryselmalyr quashed the rebellion at Thalorlyn and slaughtered some 30% of all merfolk in Serôs.
In , the surviving merfolk of the Fourth Serôs War formed the kingdom of Thalvan under King Darmox and the protection of the Coronal Vaeqiis of Aryselmalyr.
In the 6th century DR, the Ninth Serôs War was fought between the merfolk realm of Hmurrath and the merrow Axe Kingdoms of Khuur and Nmalk in the undersea land of Serôs. The Battle of the Haunted Plains took place in 654 DR.
In 735 DR, the merfolk kingdom of Eadraal was founded. Its capital city was Voalidru, just off the Hmur Plateau. Queen Selana was crowned the realms first monarch.
In 1369 DR, the Twelfth Serôs War occurred.
A mermaid holding a surface dweller.|338x338px
Merfolk were capable of interacting with surface folk, as they could survive outside of the water as amphibious creatures. However, they rarely traveled more than a few feet away from the waters edge.It was not unheard of for Sirines to mate with merfolk, producing children with joint characteristics of their parents, such as webbed fingers and scales.
*Hodatar
*King Kyron of Thalorlyn
*Prince Aldem
*Prince-Consort Kran
*Kosul, the kings heir.
*Vhaemas, King of Eadraal.
*In the city of Waterdeep, the family estates of some noble houses sported a fountain whose water spout was made to resemble a mermaid.