Mythal ghosts were a result of creatures being exposed to the magics of Myth Drannors mythals for over nine days. They were ghostly projections of the exposed creatures that could separate from their physical body.
Any creature could gain the ability to form a mythal ghost. These ghostly forms appeared as transparent shadowy insubstantial copies of their physical selves. The physical body that could materialize a ghost was referred to as its "parent". Mythal ghosts could appear only when their "parents" were completely still, knocked out, near death, or immobilized in some other way. Generally, being asleep did not allow for a ghost, but the "parent" could will themselves into the sleep that created the mythal ghost, but was unable to wake up, until the ghost merged with the "parent". If the "parent" moved or was moved in any way during their mythal ghosts activity, it instantly vanished.
The creature that spent nine days within mythal and achieved the stillness required to summon their mythal ghost started to feel sensations of floating that indicated the ability was ready to be activated.
thumb|A mythal ghost being formed.|300x300px
Mythal ghosts bore similarities to an astral projection or astral form, with the main different that it fully existed in the same plane of existence as its body. Mythal ghosts were not undead, like regular ghosts, and shared no connection to the Negative Energy plane.
Mythal ghosts were under the "parents" full control and often remained close to the bodies, defending them from harm. Mythal ghosts were capable of using physical items, interact with their environment, wield weapons, but unable to speak or use magic with verbal components. The only way of communication with a mythal ghost was via hand gestures, or writing. Spells and physical attacks could harm them and they could be destroyed. Once that happened, or the "parent" died, they needed to spend another nine days within the mythal to acquire another mythal ghost.
The ability to form a mythal ghost could be accessed by the "parent" for one year per day spent within the mythal (excluding the nine days required to gain the ability).
Mythal ghosts were able to fly and were immune to mind-affecting abilities and spells as well as cold, fire, negative energy, and psionics. They were completely immune to spells and abilities that drained the targets of their life energies and required no air nor food to sustain themselves. If the ghost was struck in flight, it fell down as if affected by the feather fall spell.
Mythal ghosts were most notable formed within the corrupted mythal of Myth Drannor, but sages theorized that with long enough exposure, other mythals could have the similar effect on creatures within their magic fields.
In 1369 DR, many of the members of the Cult of the Dragon that occupied Castle Cormanthor in attempts to corrupt the citys mythal and its pool of radiance gained the ability to form mythal ghosts. They used the ghosts in the confrontation with a group of adventurers seeking to destroy the dracolich Pelendralaars phylactery.