Narzugons, also known as hell knights,
There was confusion among mortal scholars as to the infernal caste of narzugons. Some called them lesser devils, while others classified them as greater devils. The wizard Mordenkainen went so far as to claim that they shared the same rank as the powerful gelugons.
Narzugons were ghastly, gray humanoids that stood over  tall and weighed . They were fully encased in a masterfully constructed set of spiked, plate armor, and often wore trophies of their past victories. The pennants attached to their regular lances waved in the air regardless of the wind. Individual narzugons were practically identical and their eyes held immense sadness in them. 
The dominating personality of a narzugon was anger. They despised everything—their masters, mortals, themselves, and their own immortality. Their anger partially stemmed from the knowledge that their deeds were obviously wrong, or at the very least distasteful, but that they were bound by duty to see them through. 
This sense of honor and duty was rare among the devils, with narzugons preferring action and bravery over plotting and scheming. Stories persisted of narzugons that allowed their opponents a chance to surrender or retrieve their weapon if disarmed. While the rage of a narzugon was caused by their acknowledgement of their wicked deeds, their suffering was a result of knowing that their supposed virtue as mortals was false. Regardless of personal feelings, hell knights followed every command to the letter and showed rigid discipline in their actions and attitudes.
Any creature who saw an unmasked narzugon would see their worst fear in its eyes. If they held their gaze too long, their fears manifested as a hallucination that eventually blocked out reality, causing an effect similar to the phantasmal killer spell. Even their voices were capable of sowing terror in their foes and steeling the hearts of their allies. They also possessed an enhanced perception of good-aligned entities.
Narzugons had several innate spells they could cast. Once a day, they could use orders wrath and unholy blight. At will, they could use desecrate, doom, hold person, produce flame, and suggestion. Additionally, once per day they could attempt to summon other baatezu such as an erinyes or another narzugon.
Hell knights were practically never seen without their nightmare mounts, creatures that had been captured, tamed, and bound to the service of the narzugon with infernal tack. While narzugons readily engaged in battle, they kept the well-being of their mounts in mind and never needlessly sacrificed them. If their steeds were in serious danger, most narzugons would withdraw, often using their etherealness ability to escape.
When mounted atop their steeds, narzugons traversed the battlefield looking for a flaw in enemy defenses before choosing a target and charging. Once a hell knights charge was complete, their nightmares often turned into a noxious cloud of smoke, leaving their enemies choking on fumes and giving the narzugon a chance to gain distance and prepare a second charge. A nightmare would reign in their smoke ability at behest of their knight so a narzugon could finish off an enemy themselves.
Against ranged opponents, narzugons fired volleys of flames at their foes while attempting to close into melee range. If uncertain of the course a battle was taking, narzugons removed their helmets to fill foes with nightmarish hallucinations. When fighting in legions, hell knights marched in perfect unison and led devastating charges against their foes. If on foot however, they gathered near choke points to hamper enemy mobility. A rare few narzugons practiced horseback archery, but most focused on training their ability to fight atop their steeds.
While narzugons carried different types of weapons with them, their most fearsome lances were those forged in hellfire. Hellfire lances were not only incredibly deadly, but also sent the soul of any creature slain with it to the Styx to be reborn as a lemure. The process was practically irreversible  save for a quick resurrection, or the use of incredibly powerful combinations of spells, such as wish and true resurrection. Unlike normal weapons, hellfire lances were unique to their owners, bearing both an individual mark for the narzugon and for their master.
Hell knights were the elite cavalry of Baator, responsible for carrying out the will of their masters throughout the infernal circles like the twisted reflections of knight-errants they were. They were often entrusted with important tasks that required either quick responses or long-term solutions on other planes, thanks to their trustworthiness—an incredibly rare trait in the Nine Hells. While individuals acted as messengers, envoys, and champions for greater devils, pairs of narzugons were often sent to the Prime Material Plane to track down escaped prisoners and rogue devils that had managed to escape Hell. Their other tasks might include the reclamation of lost evil artifacts, the destruction of good temples, leading wicked cults, or spearheading devilish legions, making their role similar to that of adventurers.
When attached to units of infernal armies, narzugons often served as standard bearers, but when organized into their own massive squadrons they became truly fearsome cavalry legions. Some narzugons were members of a military company known as the Order of the Nightmare, named after their iconic steeds. Despite this, not all hell knights directly served Asmodeus, and every archdevil, duke, and minor baron had at least a few narzugons under their banners.
Hell knights rarely associated with Hells other denizens, except when commanded to by their superiors. The greatest of hell knight champions were known to take even evil dragons as their mounts.
Narzugons were former paladins who in life, either made an infernal deal with a powerful devil, or were deceived into betraying their deity or order, often by Asmodeus himself.
Aside from the above methods, narzugons formed naturally from the spirits of great mortal warriors who followed the letter rather than the spirit of the law. Their insistence on the rules regardless of consequence was a false virtue that resigned them to eternal service within Hell.
Narzugons were found in all layers of the Nine Hells but were most populous in infernal strongholds and palaces.
Many legends existed across the world about the origin of the hell knights. It was believed that the first narzugons were servants of the unknown deity that Asmodeus himself once served, a being referred to as He Who Was. Asmodeus deceived the deitys servants into betraying him, an act that permanently damned them to his service, before Asmodeus killed his former master.
* Haruman, a former Helmite paladin who served the archdevil Zariel.