Nature spirits were a type of spirit found in Kara-Tur.
Least nature spirits appeared as small human children. Lesser nature spirits appeared as a young and beautiful female or male human. Greater nature spirits appeared as adult humans. All nature spirits were comprised of two alignment aspects, good and evil, which alternately dominated the spirit, leading to a variable alignment.
If a nature spirit was encountered while their evil aspect was dominant, they attacked anyone who trespassed into their territory. They did not use weapons but instead attacked with their fists and magical abilities.
All nature spirits had the innate ability to duplicate the effects of become invisible, detect evil, detect good, detect magic, detect harmony, and polymorph self spells at will. Greater nature spirits were also able to innately duplicate the effects of aura and know history at will, shapechange five times a day, and ancient curse and reward once per week. All nature spirits were resistant to physical harm but, like many fey, were more easily injured by cold iron weapons.
Greater nature spirits also had the ability to cast all wu jen spells that coincided with the source of their life-force. They were also vulnerable to damage from only powerful weapons and immune to spells from the element that coincided with the source of their life-force. For example, a greater water spirit was able to cast all water-based wu jen spells and were immune to all water-based spells.
Nature spirits drew their life-force from a specific plant or an inanimate natural object such as earth or water. If the source of their life-force was damaged, the nature spirit suffered harm. If it was destroyed, the spirit died.
Nature spirits rarely ventured far from their home area, which surrounded the source of their life-force. All nature spirits were aware of any event within the surrounding area and were able to communicate with animals empathically.
Beyond Kara-Tur, nature spirits could be found in the Quoya Desert.
While most nature spirits avoided interacting with the affairs of mortals, in times of great danger they were know make their presence aware to any mortal within their area. Lesser nature spirits were even known to marry a human, producing spirit folk offspring.
* Harooga