Nimblewrights were humanoid-shaped constructs that were typically employed as bodyguards, assassins, or spies.
Nimblewrights were made of wood or steel-colored metal. When disguised with clothing and magic, they could easily pass for any humanoid creature of similar size. Each nimblewright had a pair of rapiers that folded into its arms when not in use.
Nimblewrights were created with intelligence, and each possessed a distinct, though chaotic, personality. This allowed for more intuitive thinking and creativity than most other constructs were capable of.
As constructs, nimblewrights were immune to a variety of things, including mind-affecting magic, poisons and diseases, and death and necromantic effects. They could not be stunned, paralyzed, or put to sleep either. However, nimblewrights were vulnerable to the cold, which caused them to slow, and fire, which could stun one.
Nimblewrights had darkvision and were recorded to speak the Common, Dwarvish, and Elven languages, although their construction meant that they could speak at least one additional language that their creator knew. Nimblewrights could cast the spells haste, entropic shield, alter self, cats grace, and feather fall at will.
Thanks to their lightweight construction, nimblewrights were excellent duelists, capable of effectively dodging and parrying blows, while swiftly attacking with rapiers and daggers.
Nimblewrights could be created by high-level arcane casters, and the procedure to create one was demanding in terms of money and power. The creator had to know the spells geas/quest, haste, limited wish, and polymorph any object. Creating the body of a nimblewright required approximately  of flexible, precious metal alloys, and required the creator to know either sculpting or masonry to shape. Making the body cost about 15,000 gold pieces the ritual as whole could cost up to 35,000 gold total. Like golems, nimblewrights were created by binding an elemental―in the case of a nimblewright, a water elemental―to the artificial body and binding it to the creators will.
In the late 15 century DR, numerous nimblewrights constructed in Lantan existed in Waterdeep. Four of them worked at the Sea Maidens Faire, under the command of Jarlaxle.
200px|The nimblewright detector constructed by Nim.
* Nim, a particularly creative nimblewright who lived in the House of Inspired Hands. It was capable of creating other nimblewrights and had developed a nimblewright detector.