Nixies were an aquatic race of sprite.
Nixies were quite elven-like in appearance. They had typically slim bodies with pale green skin, dark green hair, webbed finger and toes, pointed ears, and wide silver eyes. On average they stood  and weighed around .
Females typically wore tight-fitting wraps, woven from colorful seaweed, and often braided shells and pearl strings in their hair. made of the same seaweed material.
Nixies were naturally aquatic creatures who could breathe both air and water. Once per day they could cast water breathing, with the effect lasting 24 hours.
Nixies could also cast charm person three times per day, with the effect lasting 24 hours. When a group of ten nixies got together they could cast a powerful charm on other humanoids that could last up to a year.
Nixies typically relied upon their charm person ability to deter threats, entering combat only when they needed to protect themselves and their territory. Male nixies were known to wield daggers or javelins in combat.
Nixies lived in tribes of 20 to 80 members that controlled a territory approximately  in diameter. They wove their buildings out of living water plants. A typical nixie family had 4 to 8 members and a tribe typically had 10 to 15 families, all descended from a set of common ancestors. When a tribe became too big, 2 to 3 families would split off to form a new tribe elsewhere. Nixies were known to be polygamists, with males having 2 to 3 wives.
Nixies tribes were ruled by an Acquar, or water mother, who was a direct descendant of the tribes founder. The Acquar was advised by a council of elders led by a spokesperson called the Luquar, who was responsible for keeping the oral history of the tribe. The Acquar was responsible for settling major disputes and dividing treasure gained through war, luck, or work she also picked a warrior to be the Soquar, or warlord in charge of hunting and defense.
Nixie intertribal relationship were often fierce, with females sometimes being captured as brides.
thumb|A close-up of a nixie and his webbed fingers.
Nixies dwelled within pristine ponds and lakes that they rarely left. These were always clean and well-stocked with fish.
In Northwest Faerûn, they inhabited the Laughing Hollow. In Rashemen, nixies lived in and defended Lake Ashane.
Beyond Faerûn, nixies were occasionally found in the Hordelands in the lakes, rivers, and swamps of the Ama Basin during the summer season. Some pixies inhabited the lakes and streams of the island Evermeet.
Beyond Toril, some nixies could be found on the water world of Thalassa.
In addition to having their own language, nixies typically could speak Aquan, Sylvan,
Nixies were quite reclusive, even compared to most fey, and thus had a tendency to treat intruders with suspicion or hostility. Some used their charm person and water breathing spells to make creatures perform for their community heavy labor, such as the removal of trash or obstacles, guard duty, and other onerous tasks.  Shortly before charm person wore off, a nixie would escort the creature away and order them to keep walking.
The Naughty Nixie was a well-liked inn in the city of Yhaunn.