Noctrals were a race of avian creatures native to the plane of Mount Celestia.
Noctrals largely resembled great horned owls, but stood roughly as tall as a full-grown human and had a wingspan of . Their plumage varied in color from dove-like gray to deep black. Their faces were heart-shaped, much like a barn owl, and they had large golden hue eyes with a protective inner eyelid.
Noctrals were extremely intelligent and peaceful creatures. They often delighted in showing off their intelligence and sharing their extensive knowledge with mortals, especially if those creatures were polite and patient. However, if it was clear that someone had evil intentions for knowledge they would never share it.
Much like mundane species of birds, noctrals had hollow bones. Their hearing was four times better than any elf and their eyes could see well in total darkness.
A noctral stands perched next to a humanoid inhabitant of Mount Celestia.
Noctrals possessed a number of abilities similar to the spells invisibility, speak with animals, and tongues. They could also cast legend lore three times per day.
In addition, their race possessed a natural form of telepathy that allowed them to speak with most mortal creatures within a  radius and because of their high intellect they could effectively detect lie against humans and demihumans when speaking telepathically with them.
These creatures tried to avoid combat whenever possible, though were physically more than a match against one or two minor fiends. Much like an owl they fought in the air, using their sharp talons and hooked beaks. But unlike an owl, they never killed for sport or pleasure.
When confronted with more powerful opponents, a noctral would retreat and seek the aid of their allies.
On their home plane of Mount Celestia, noctrals often served as advisors and sages to other inhabitants of the plane. While they all were mainly keepers of history and lore, individual noctrals had two to three of their own areas of expertise, such as astrology, mathematics, magic, and so on. Their knowledge of history was primarily centered around Mount Celestia, though they sometimes knew historical facts pertaining to other planes.
Despite being highly intelligent creatures, noctrals still hunted for prey at night like the mundane owl. When doing so they only targeted non-intelligent creatures.
Noctrals were most often known to befriend archons, aasimon, and exceptional petitioners. They spent much of their time providing their companions with the advice.
They were a favored monster of a variety of deities in the Realms and thus were under their protection. Harming such a noctral was liable to incur direct retribution from their patron. Alternatively, a power might send a deva or planetar to the noctrals aid.
Among the Morndinsamman they were known to act as servants of Berronar Truesilver, Gorm Gulthyn, Moradin. In the Seldarine they were known to act as servants of Aerdrie Faenya and Corellon. Among the Lords of the Golden Hills they were known to act as servants of Gaerdal Ironhand. Among Yondallas Children they were known to act as servants of Arvoreen, Cyrrollalee, and Yondalla herself.