Otters were a species of aquatic mammal distantly related to weasels.
Otters were very fast moving creatures, both in terms of running and swimming. Those that inhabited oceans were typically larger than their more land-locked kin.
These creatures were very friendly and had a very playful nature. During storms, sea otters tended to come ashore or swim upriver, searching for shelter inside alcoves or small caves. Some would simply wait on the banks of rivers and wait for the storm to pass.
Sea otters seemingly possessed an innate sense of how severe coming storms would be.
Otters generally tried to avoid combat. They were only known to attack other creatures when threatened, cornered, or their young were threatened.
Many years prior to 1492 DR, the wizard Traxigor was polymorphed into an otter. He came to conclude that he preferred his new form to that of his elderly body and used the spell wish to make it permanent.
Giant otter A monstrous variety of the standard otter.
According to weather folklore in Interior Faerûn, the farther upriver a sea otter swam and the more of them that were huddled together indicated how long and severe a storm was going to be.
Otters primarily ate fish and crustaceans.
thumb|273px|An otter swims alongside aquatic elves and a dolphin.
Otters could be found in a variety of fresh and saltwater aquatic environments, including rivers, lakes, and oceans. Ocean otters were typically found near shallow, coastal waters.
They could be found all along the Sword Coast, the coasts of the North, and all their outer islands. They also inhabited the lake Maer Dualdon, the lake Moonsea, and the Delimbiyr River.
In Interior Faerûn they could be found in and around the Sea of Fallen Stars, where they sometimes swam up one of its many rivers in search of food. and The Vast. 
In south Faerûn they inhabited the Lake of Steam. In the Unapproachable East, they could be found in the nation of Aglarond in the Tannath Gap.
Beyond Faerûn, they could be found in the Hordelands at the lowest levels of the Katakoro Plateau. In neighboring Kara-Tur, they could be found all throughout that continents forests, jungles, and steppelands. Sea otters were particularly found in its climate climate ocean bodies.
Beyond the Prime Material plane, otters could be found in the River Oceanus.
In Interior Faerûn, fishing communities often looked to sea otters as indicators of how severe a coming storm was going to be due to their storm-related habits.
They were typically favored as pets by water genasi. Some aquatic rangers were known to have them as animal companions. And some elves were known to have them as familiars.
Some creatures were known to hunt otters for their pelts. The pelts of in-land otters typically sold for around 2 to 3 gp, while those of sea otters fetched prices of around 1,000 to 4,000 gp.
Otters were often hunted down and fed upon by orpsu.
* In the River Quarter of Daggerford there was a tavern by the name of Otters Run, which had the dried and stretched out pelt of one hanging beneath its sign.
* The Skinwalkers of Evermeet were known to sometimes assume the form of an otter as their totem animals.
* The totem-sisters of Evermeet sometimes inscribed the totemic image of an otter upon a small pendant or earring, giving their wearer that creatures skill in swimming.
* Those who specialized in sea-based magic could summon a sea otter with the spell monster summoning I.
* Some Ysgardian dwarves could assume the form of an otter.