Para-genasi, were a type of planetouched human who expressed a bloodline of two elements, not just one as with regular genasi. Para-genasi were even rarer than the four common genasi, owing to the lower probability of two elemental bloodlines crossing. For example, the daughter of a mortal human and an efreeti, who then had children with a djinni, might have descendants who included air genasi, fire genasi, and smoke para-genasi.It is not stated if para-elemental genasi, excepting dust and steam para-genasi, may originate directly from the para-elemental planes, but this seems likely.
Despite being grouped together, para-genasi had very few commonalities they differed wildly in personality and appearance, with both being affected by their respective para-elements their physical appearance was the most obviously effected, as they often had minorly magical attributes. They had virtually no innate abilities in common, although all para-genasi except for dust had darkvision. Nor  did para-genasi have any real society of their own, being born as they were into larger human societies.
Ice para-genasi tended to be pale with sharp, chiseled features, and they had a distinct preference for light, loose clothing of white or pale blue coloring. They tended to be cold and emotionless as well, and favored training as fighters. Those that became clerics always took either (and worshiped a deity that held one or both of) the water or air domains.
Thanks to their elemental heritage, ice para-genasi were resistant to cold-based effects and could cast chill metal once per day. Additionally, some ice para-genasi were recorded to have breath that misted even in the heat, or hair perpetually caked in frost.
Magma para-genasi were typically short and stocky to the point of resembling tall dwarves. They usually had dark dark skin, and some skin or eyes had a reddish glow others were known to have hair that rippled like fire or skin that was unusually hot to touch. Magma para-genasi were ponderous and preferred simple, practical clothes that were on the verge of smoldering.
Magma para-genasi were resistant to fire-based effects and could cast heat metal once per day. They favored training as fighters those that became clerics always took either the fire or earth domain.
Ooze para-genasi were also heavy-set, but with flabby and sallow skin. Their elemental heritage meant they often had greasy skin or unusually flexible limbs. Ooze para-genasi preferred clothing in dark earth tones, which was often soiled and foul-smelling. They were, in a word, revolting physically as well as mentally, with personalities best described as slimy, and a predilection for evil.
Ooze para-genasi were resistant to acid-based effects and could cast grease once per day. Like most other para-genasi, they favored training as fighters. Ooze para-genasi clerics always chose the Slime domain.
Smoke para-genasi were mostly tall and lanky with dark skin and hair their elemental heritage often manifested as hair that billowed like a cloud of smoke, or always faintly smelling of something burning. They normally wore loose clothing of dark-colored, heavy fabrics. Smoke para-genasi were typically described as crude and lazy.
Smoke para-genasi were resistant to smoke and cloud-type effects, and could cast create a smoke cloud once per day (similar in effect to pyrotechnics, but they did not require an open flame). They preferred wizardly learning. Those who became clerics always chose the air or fire domain.
Dust para-genasi were also tall but gaunt, with pale skin, hollow cheeks, and dark circles under their eyes. They sometimes had perpetually dry skin or a dust cloud around them because of their elemental power. They also vastly preferred to wear black, particularly funeral garb, even when such clothing was entirely inappropriate. Dust para-genasi were morbid and sarcastic and slightly chaotic,
Dust para-genasi were resistant to dust-based effects, could create a cough-inducing dust cloud around themselves, and did not need to breathe. They favored rogue training. Those who became clerics always chose the air or earth domain.
Steam para-genasi tended to to be tall, slim, and lightweight. They had a grey tone to their skin and hair, and some had wisps of mist that clung to them. Steam para-genasi normally wore loose, gauzy, flowing clothing. Steam para-genasi were more than a little arrogant, seeing themselves as superior to other creatures
Steam para-genasi were resistant to heat-based, but not fire-based, effects, could cast obscuring mist once per day, and could see through fog, smoke, and other atmospheric effects extremely well. Like dust para-genasi, steam para-genasi favored rogue training. Those that became clerics always chose the fire or water domain.