Peacocks were a species of bird found in the Realms.
The shrieks of these birds sounded vaguely human-like.
thumb|273px|Some of the Ceraut Estates peacocks.
Several decades prior to 1368 DR, an eccentric nobleman by the name of Lord Ceraut imported a small flock of peacocks to his estate in Furthinghome. As his estate fell into disrepair the peacocks made their way out into the countryside, until by 1368 DR they had grown to a large population that was breeding unrestrained.
In the mid–14 century DR, Auroras Whole Realms Catalogue sold individual peacock feathers for one gold piece each.
In the late-15 century DR, the Outer City of Baldurs Gate had a burgeoning peacock-breeding
industry. Around that time the Helm and Cloak served peacock meat.
Peacocks were one of the many species of bird kept within the fortress Sarahins Garden of Delights. In Maztica, peacocks could be found in Payit. In Kara-tur, peacocks could be found throughout tropical forest regions and within the Valley of Wings.
Beyond the Prime Material plane, peacocks could be found in Siamorphes divine realm in the House of the Triad.
Peacocks were one of the many exotic animals transported by caravans across the Endless Wastes.
In the town of Yhep, the attendants of the Open Oyster inn were known to fan patrons with peacock feathers.
Thomas C. Quirkilious of the Chromatic Scale instrument shop in Baldurs Gate experimented with using peacock gizzards to make lute strings. The experiment was a gross failure.
In the land of Kara-Tur, peacocks were often associated with foretelling the future. Some primitive tribes in Kara-Tur believed that there existed a mystic link between peacocks and some species of fish that were also associated with fortune telling.
* One of the three gates of the city of Dihliz was known as the Peacock Gate.
* Peacocks were one of the many forms that gendruwo were capable of shapeshifting into.
* The sultan of Sudolphoor had a summer home known as the Peacock House, named for the peacocks that he kept within its garden.
* Members of the Pantheists across the Golden Gulf frequently referred to the citizens of the Pearl Cities as "peacocks" for their ostentatious clothes.
* In the land of Zakhara, the spirits of some deceased took the form of spectral peacocks.