Pech () were creatures of elemental earth.
They bore a resemblance to gnomes, but had a skin tone that ranged from dark brown and dull grey, to pale yellow. Their skin also had a toughness comparable to that of granite. Their eyes were large, lacked pupils, and reflected light like an owl or cat. Their arms and legs were thin and gangly, ending in abnormally large and powerful hands. Their hair tended to grow either wiry or as thick manes, the color of wet clay.
Pech were typically known to be stoic and reserved.
The large, pupil-less eyes of pech were sensitive to sunlight and could see in both the infrared and ultraviolet spectrums.
When pechs gathered together, they could mould stone as if it were clay, conjure walls of stone out of thin air, as well as petrify and un-petrify living creatures. Though some pechs were known to be powerful enough to perform the first two things on their own, as well as cast the spell stone tell.
Outside of being able to petrify or un-petrify creatures, pechs themselves were entirely immune to the condition.
Pechs were generally known to wield pickaxes and peat hammers in combat. Their expertise in mining made them capable combatants against any stone creature, such as stone golems.
500x500px
Pech spent much of their lives mining, filling their homes with a variety of gems. They were also known to form dishes and various ornamental goods out of stone or raw metal.
Outside of mining, they were well known for hunting cockatrices, being immune to their petrifying gaze.
Their affinity with stone and natural aversion to sunlight made subterranean habitats ideal for them.
Beyond the Elemental Plane of Earth, pech could be found inhabiting the Quasi-Elemental Plane of Minerals.
In the Unapproachable East, some pech could be found in the mountains and hills of Rashemen.
Pech often competed for raw materials in their underground habitats with dao, tomb tappers, and various dwarven races. They traded what they mined with other creatures in return for food or services.
Countless tribes had fought to remove a colony of neogi that had settled in their home plane, but each time they fell and were eaten.
When not in conflict or trade with another creature, pech generally kept to themselves.
Pech were naturally affiliated with the earth, so much so that they were believed to be natives of the Elemental Plane of Earth.
On one of their adventures, the ranger Drizzt DoUrden and Belwar Dissengulp encountered a pech who had been polymorphed by an evil wizard into a hook horror. They named him Clacker and together ventured through the Underdark.
* Clacker
* Gallus