| length       = 
| wingspan     = 
| weight       = 
| skincolor    = 
| haircolor    = 
| hairstyles   = 
| feathers     = 
| eyecolor     = 
| build        = 
| distinctions = 
| appearrefs   = 
| first        = 
| based        = 
| histrefs     = 
Pegataurs were a species of centaur that sported wings, much like a pegasus.There were no known instances of a pegataur in a Realms sourcebook. However, they are listed in Demihuman Deities as one of many creatures that could appear in the Realms to act on behalf of Aerdrie Faenya. For this reason, pegataurs are documented in this article.
The humanoid upper-half of a pegataur resembled an elf, with long blond or silver hair. Their equine lower bodies were typically strong and healthy, sporting coats of either black, brown, gray, or white. The plumage of their wings was downy and typically white. On average they grew to stand around  tall.
They usually didnt wear any armor, in order to provide themselves better mobility. The most common forms of armor worn by them were chainmail, followed by leather armor and elven chainmail.
Pegataurs generally had a rather aloof personality, especially towards creatures that couldnt fly. They prided themselves on their fitness, stamina, and strength.
Much like a half-elf, they were partially resistant charm and sleep spells. Their bodies were also quite resistant to high and low temperatures.
In addition to their hooves, pegataurs were known to fight with longbows, light lances, two-handed swords, and horsemans maces. They also had no qualms against allies mounting them for the purposes of combat.
Pegataurs were known to dive down at their opponents with lances, but only when they managed to surprise them.
thumb|380x380px
These creatures lived in tightly knit clans and tribes led by chieftains with a council of elders and shamans. These tribes often included pegasi.
They often held jousting competitions while training or during tribal tournaments.
Pegataurs were only known to be found on the planet Mystara. There they lived in all sorts of climates, but preferred lightly wooded hills. They lived in abodes carved into the sides of high mountains in regions with temperate climates. These caves, called tehir, had vaulted ceilings and intricately carved walls. They were also adorned with crystals that provided illumination at night.
Some pegataurs on that world lived in a flying city known as Serraine.
Pegataurs typically spoke Common and Elvish, as well as their own language that was related to Elvish.
So long as they were paid well and treated with respect pegataurs were willing to work for most creatures as bodyguards, troops, or for special tasks. Though they never worked for evil individuals. They also sometimes worked with druids to maintain the balance of nature in an area and would train pegasi to be mounts for ground dwellers. Another major source of interaction between pegataurs and other races was their desire to commission the manufacture of fine barding.
Pegataurs were known to sometimes act as servants of the goddess Aerdrie Faenya, a member of Torils Elven pantheon.
One legend on Mystara claimed that the first pegataurs resulted from a mad wizard fusing an elf and a pegasus together.