| length       = 
| wingspan     = 
| weight       = 
| skincolor    = 
| haircolor    = 
| hairstyles   = 
| feathers     = 
| eyecolor     = 
| build        = Muscular
| distinctions = 
| appearrefs   = 
| first        = 
| based        = 
| histrefs     = 
Pers were a warrior race of outsiders that served the various deities of the Upper Planes, primarily by acting as guardians of portals to those planes and of significant junctures of Yggdrasil. They were created by deities from the spirits of humans who in life had been dedicated to a cause and many considered it a great honor to become one.
Pers resembled human fighters with muscular builds, standing  on average. They were typically garbed in elaborately decorated bronze or steel armor and large helmets that were adorned were large plumes or other sorts of ornamentation. Their overall appearance was rather grim and foreboding.
Pers were rather intelligent beings, but also fanatical in their duties and would never leave their assigned post. If ever challenged, they would fight to the death. Some mistook their dutiful nature for being emotionlessness.
All pers possessed abilities that mimicked the spells blade barrier, charm person or mammal which could be cast seven times per day, cure serious wounds which could be cast three times per day, ESP, light, mirror image, and read magic. Of these powers, ESP in particular was frequently used by them as part of their duties.
Pers could not be harmed by any mundane weaponry, they viewed the world with truesight, were difficult to surprise, and they could magically determine an opponents fighting prowess. Due to the special nature of their existence, all pers possessed a limited mental link with the deities they served, making the power aware whenever a per was in duress or outright killed.
Each per carried a special sentient two-handed sword, imbued with the essence of a servitor of an Upper Planes deity. These swords were aligned towards lawful neutral, could speak Common, and were always in agreement with their per wielder, though would come into conflict with any other being that tried to wield them. In addition to carrying both a +3 enchantment and an effect similar to a frostbrand, they also had spell-like abilities that mimicked confusion, detect evil, detect good, detect invisible objects, and detect magic. The ability to detect good and evil aligned beings was frequently utilized by the per in their duties.
New pers were created by deities whenever their numbers were running low or whenever a new portal to the Upper Planes was created.
Pers could be found throughout much of the Upper Planes, such as in Elysium, various roads on Mount Olympus, and at some of the most important junctions on Yggdrasil. In the Krigala layer of the Beastlands, a number of pers guarded color pools that formed in and around where Yggdrasils branches reached into the plane.
All pers spoke common, but also retained the languages of the spirit they were created from.
A wide variety of deities across different pantheons worshipped on the world of Toril were known to have pers as servants.
Faerûnian pantheon Within the major pantheon of Faerûn, pers were used as servants by Kelemvor, the Red Knight, and Savras.
Lords of the Golden Hills Of the gnomish deities, Gaerdal Ironhand was the sole member to utilize pers.
Morndinsamman Berronar Truesilver, Clangeddin Silverbeard, Gorm Gulthyn, and Moradin.
Seldarine Corellon and Solonor Thelandira.
Yondallas Children Cyrrollalee and Yondalla.
Among the Olympian pantheon, a number of pers acted as lesser proxies for the deity Apollo, each entrusted with minor tasks.
* Erik Boldswift, a servant of the Norse deity Heimdall that was rumored to guard a portal in the mountain forests of Krigala that lead to Ysgard.