| length       = 
| wingspan     = 
| weight       = 
| skincolor    = 
| haircolor    = 
| hairstyles   = 
| feathers     = 
| eyecolor     = 
| build        = 
| distinctions = 
| appearrefs   = 
| first        = 
| based        = 
| histrefs     = 
Pigs, also called hogs and swine, were a kind of animal raised as livestock, generally for the sole purpose of being eaten. Farmers who raised pigs were often called swineherds. They were known as slaugh among some elves, dryads, and other forest-dwellers (which literally translated to "mud-wallowing dogs").
Male pigs used for breeding were called "boars" while the females were called "sows". A newborn was called a "piglet" until it was weaned, at which point it was a "shoat". Most male shoats were then castrated, ensuring that they grew to be fat and docile.
Pigs were usually  tall at the shoulder.
Domestic pigs were important as sources of pork, and especially as sources of cured meat that was durable and could travel, including salted or smoked cuts such as bacon or ham. Whole roasted adult or suckling pigs were major centerpieces of many cultures feasts and festivals as well as big draws at inns and taverns. Pigs ears were a delicacy in some parts of Faerûn.
Pigs organs, including intestines and brains, were also used for food or cooked into gravy. Their bladders could be used as sausage casings or to make sugar bladders (a sort of confection).
Pig fat, sometimes known as lard, was used in cooking and to make pastry dough.
Some pig parts also had non-culinary uses. Their bladders could be inflated or filled with water to create childrens diversions known simply as bladders. Pigskin could be tanned to make pouches and to use as upholstery.
In magic, certain profane rituals and curses, such as those performed by the anchorites of Talos in the late 15 century DR, involved the use of pigs hearts or blood. Fatty pieces of pig could be used as material components in spells like grease or grease slick.
Domestic pigs were gentle and docile creatures, although they were known to be both more stubborn and more intelligent than other forms of livestock.
Pigs were easy to keep alongside other domestic animals, like chickens or goats. While usually harmless, pigs could become irritable when underfed and swineherds risked nasty bites and kicks, especially from breeding males which might also have tusks. As a result, it was not uncommon for swineherds to wear leather armor and leather gloves, or something similar.
They were not fans of the cold of winter nor of the heat of summer, the latter of which just made them seek to wallow and sleep in the mud.
Most pigs&mdashdomestic or wild&mdashdid not attack humanoids unless they felt threatened, were compelled by magic,
Domestic pigs were raised as food and were almost never used for labor, unlike other livestock such as cows. Live pigs were also a valuable trade commodity, or ship. An average pig sold for 3 gold pieces.
thumb|350px|An ettin swineherd tends to his hogs.Pigs were a staple in north Faerûn since the days of ancient Netheril, and were kept everywhere from the Sword Coast North and Dessarin Valley in the west to the Bloodstone Lands in the east. They were raised all over the Moonsea region, including Thar, and notably in Zhentil Keep, the Winterspear Vale near Hulburg, and the countryside near Phlan, Hillsfar, Elventree, and Mulmaster (where it was common practice for the city to give cadavers to pig farmers to be used as pigfeed). Pigs were also common in the Vast, where herds were allowed to range and graze on mushrooms, acorns, and roots as well as small snakes and birds at Hogs Hill north of Ravens Bluff, and around the town of Hlintar, which was renown for its muddy pig farms and the high-quality bacon which they produced. In the North, hill giants were sometimes known to raise their own pigs, such as at Grudd Haug.
Pigs could be found throughout the Moonshae Isles, including on Alaron, Norland, and the larger islands of the Korinn Archipelago, where they were a major export. Whole roast pigs were served at Northlander feasts.
In the Eastern Heartlands, pigs were raised in Cormyr and across the Dalelands. Most notably, they could be found in Battledale near Hap, (although the entire dale was known for its pigs), in Scardale (notable for its pig farmers allowing their herds to forage freely in the woods, and for using the smell of roasted corn to lure them back home), and in Mistledale (where some pigs at Sharin Freehold were bred to have wings strong enough to let them fly short distances to avoid predators).
In the Western Heartlands, pigs were raised across Elturgard from the Fields of the Dead to Berdusk. They were also found in the Sunset Vale, notably around Corm Orp, where they freely ranged the hills east of town. It was not uncommon in these parts for the raising of pigs to be overseen in part by local temples dedicated to agricultural deities, such as the Great Mothers House of Chauntea or the Ladyhouse of Sheela Peryroyl.
Further south, pigs were kept in Tethyr, Amn (notably in the grasslands of Riatavin), and in Manshaka in Calimshan. An Amnian delicacy was pigs head. Pigs were also raised in the Border Kingdoms, notably in the Barony of Blacksaddle and the Realm of the Ready Sword.
In the east, herd of pigs were kept in Mulhorand, especially in the Great Vale, and in Thay, where the Red Wizards often used them to feed their pet monsters and guardians. Pigs were rare in Chessenta, resulting in pork being a much sought-after import. Peasant families kept pigs in the Hordelands, notably in Ra-Khati and Khazari.
Comparing someone to a pig was an insult in Faerûn, and was generally meant to imply greediness, gluttony,
Pigs were commonly eaten throughout most of Kara-Tur, and whole roast pigs were served as the centerpieces of festivals in places like Akari. Pigs were also raised in the Plain of Horses, notably in Jugicha where the Tsu-tsu tribe were known to be uniquely proficient in pig breeding. Among the Nubari of Malatra, the Simbara tribes often raised pigs, although calling one of their warriors a "pig herder" was seen as an insult. The korobokuru were known to keep pigs.
In Kara-Turan magical tradition, the pig was the animal correlate of the element of water.
Comparing someone to a pig in Kara-Tur was an insult meant to imply a lack of honor.
Pork was eaten in Zakhara and, as in other continents, likening someone to a pig was derogatory. Pigs were also the subject of a Zakharan maxim "A butchered pig has no need to fear the oven."
A prominent feature of the Zakharan desert were steep, rocky ridges known as hogbacks, so named because of their resemblance to wild pigs.
Beyond Toril and the Prime Material plane, pigs were raised in Sigil where they were bought, sold, and bartered for in the Market Ward, including a two-headed variety. They were also raised in the plane of Arcadia.
Domesticated pigs lived either with individual families&mdashusually with each containing a trough and a manger&mdashand a muddy place for the pigs to wallow (which could double as a conveniently disgusting place for a farmer to hide their valuables). Pig farms in general were famous for how horrible they smelled.
Pigs were fed everything from mushrooms, plants and grains to eggs, fish, and small animals to insect larvae, worms, and garbage, or even human remains. That said, it was common wisdom that pigs produced better meat when allowed to forage rather than being fed grain or trash. Swineherds wielding special crooks and calling "sooooeeee!" would often oversee a foraging herd as it ranged out from their farm, but in some cases pigs were allowed to forage unsupervised before being summoned back for slaughter.
Domestic pigs were popular prey for everything from wolves to roving ogres and giants, who were prone to steal them from farms. They were also a favored host of tatterdemanimals, and their pigsties were often home to rats.
Whole pigs were fed to domestic catoblepas to keep them docile, and were used as bait for hunting young ankhegs, which would gorge themselves to death on a suitably large pig carcass.
While the term "wild pig" could occasionally be used to describe boars or warthogs, it was also used to describe a class of smaller wild swine and escaped domestic pigs. but also including things like insects and stirge eggs. They were hunted not only by humans but by lizardfolk and wemics.
Wild pigs were common in the Eastern Heartlands. They could be found in Cormyr, including in the mountains of the Storm Horns and Thunder Peaks, as well as in the Stonelands, the Goblin Marches and in the surrounding Cormanthor forest. They could also be found in Sembia.
In Kara-Tur, wild pigs were known to inhabit Mad Monkey Island near Tu Lung.
In Zakhara, wild pigs were a popular food of serpent lords.
A colony of dwarves once spent 50 years trying and failing to raise pigs in the Glaun Bog in Cormyr.
In Ches of , a ship called the Bloody Umber heading for Scardale disappeared on the Inner Sea with a cargo of live pigs.
In the late 15 century DR, an expedition of the Order of the Gauntlet to Chult brought along live pigs for food, however their herd soon died out.
* Lewy Jons hog was the prized pig of farmer Lewy Jons of West Harbor on the Sword Coast North in the 1370s DR.