Pterafolk (), also called "pteramen" or "ptera-men", were a race of shape-shifting pteranodon-like humanoids nearly unique to the jungles of Chult.
At first glance, pterafolk in their natural forms looked like tail-less lizardfolk or saurials, but they were much taller and leaner and had elongated cranial crests like pteranodons. They had smooth, fine scales, much like those of a snake, that ranged in color from forest-green to light shades of tan. Their arms and legs were thin and long, and their hands and feet bore sharp claws.
Pterafolk did not wear clothing, except for belts and bandoliers for carrying small items.
While not all lizardfolk were evil, it was generally agreed that pterafolk were cruel and vicious as a rule. They were highly untrusting of anyone outside their own race. They had an innate predilection towards violent behavior, but those raised in other societies sometimes had the capacity to overcome this tendency and take on alignments beyond evil.
Pterafolk liked to collect things valued by the communities near where they lived.
A pterafolk takes flight.|355x355pxPterafolk ate both meat and vegetables. Their favorite meats were from brontotheres and hornless rhinoceros&mdashmassive prehistoric mammals still roaming in the jungles of Chult&mdashand axebeaks&mdashmammoth flightless birds. They also consumed jungle fruits, roots, bark, and flowers.
Pterafolk mated for life. Females laid eggs high on mountain peaks and both parents guarded the eggs. When the young reached adulthood, they would leave the tribe and form smaller bands until they could establish territory or a tribe of their own.
It was exceptionally rare for a pterafolk individual to die of old age death in battle was expected.
Sages and scholars of Faerûn believed that lizardfolk evolved from pterafolk. Rumors among adventurers claimed that pterafolk were the result of magical experiments on pteranodons.
In fact, neither tale was true pterafolk were one of the many creations of the sarrukh of Mhairshaulk and were bred from lizardfolk. The pterafolk gave the sarrukh armies more power, owing to their flight and viciousness, but they were also more difficult to control.
After the fall of Mhairshaulk, many of the sarrukhs enemies attempted to hunt down and destroy the pterafolk.
During the Time of Troubles in 1358 DR, the god Kossuth led a war against the pterafolk after appearing below the Peaks of Flame and choosing a firenewt named Chassan as his avatar.
While they usually kept to themselves, in 1363 DR, Kaverin Ebonhand had managed to convince several dozen of them to fight with him in his assault on the holy city of Mezro. They dropped rocks and explosive items upon the city from the air. When Kaverin was slain by the famous Harper Artus Cimber, however, the pterafolk abandoned the fight.
FRPtérosaurien
CategoryRaces
3k48tvuqznyz6ag4jq7qv120eaz10ew