Quadrones were the second most advanced type of base modron.
Quadrones were cube-shaped and winged. Though some older versions were known to have a second set of arms in place of wings.
Like all modrons, quadrones had an absolute sense of hierarchy and order, and could not be persuaded to disobey their instructions or betray their purpose in any way.
It was possible, however, for a defective quadrone to go rogue and start acting in its own interests or no longer in accordance with its instructions, sometimes even becoming violent. Such rogues were relentlessly hunted by other modrons, although, unlike their properly operating fellows, they could be reasoned with.
On all six sides of their bodies were sensory organs far superior to that of any human. These granted them truesight, in addition to being able to view the infrared and ultraviolet spectrums out to  and , respectively. These senses enabled them to rarely be surprised by opponents.
Like all modrons, quadrones were immune to all effects and spells that influenced the mind, fear and attacks that rely on energy from either the Negative or Positive energy planes. They also had a resistance to acid, cold and fire.
Unlike tridrones and other lower ranked modrons, these creatures had four complete functions and thus were capable of performing four simultaneous tasks at a time. These functions typically included being able to report actions as well as observations, devise plans, react to situations that were unexpected, and act in accordance to solve those situations.
Quadrones were capable of wielding weapons and were exceptionally proficient with bows, with which they capable of performing four attacks at a time. If destroyed, a quadrone disintegrated completely into dust and a tridrone was instantly upgraded into a quadrone to fill its position.
A rogue quadrone.
Quadrones could communicate with other quadrones and with tridrones and pentadrones. They were incapable of communicating directly with lesser modrons and could not comprehend any of the hierarch modrons, such as decatons.
In modron society, they were responsible for supervising other groups of modrons, as well as performing services as multifunctional laborers. During battles they often served the role of a field officer. They were always created as the result of tridrones being upgraded to take the place of destroyed or further upgraded units.
There were approximately one and and a half million quadrones in modron society at any time. During battles, a regiment would typically feature a dozen of the best quadrones available.
* Halastron, a rogue quadrone adopted by Halaster Blackcloak who lived in the Arcane Chambers level of Undermountain.
* Nordom, a rogue quadrone and companion of the Nameless One.