Quickwoods, otherwise known as spy trees, were a very rare species of sentient tree.
Quickwoods largely resembled oak trees to other creatures unless within  of them or  if it was trying to remain hidden. What distinguished them from regular trees was a visage and sensory organs &mdash ears, eyes, and nose &mdash that resembled those of a distorted human face. They even had a mouth-like opening.
Their roots were capable of seizing and holding down creatures under . They were very durable and hard to damage with blunt weaponry.
Quickwoods were capable of moving their trunks by means of sending their thick roots through the loose top soil. They could move their roots up to . However, as this was a very difficult process they typically had their trunks remain still.
Quickwoods harmlessly channeled lightning off of them and were immune to all forms of poison of gas. They also were immune to mind affecting spells. If under attack by spells they would exude an aura of fear in a radius of .
In addition to their standard roots, quickwoods had a number of smaller roots that they used to sense approaching creatures. Their leaves were also capable of detecting movement in air and changes in pressure. Their eyes were capable of seeing infravisually from up to  away.
The limbs of quickwoods were too stiff to be effective in combat. If a creature got close enough to their trunk they would clamp down with their mouth-like opening.
Some claimed that quickwoods grew from mandragora roots that had been planted and enchanted by a great druid or wizard with some mighty spells.
Quickwoods were known to be found in practically any location that supported oak trees.
In North Faerûn they could be found in Cormanthor, Cormyr, the Dalelands, and Sembia. They could also be found in parts of Northwest Faerûn. In the Unapproachable East, quickwoods could be found in the coastal regions of Rashemen.
Beyond the Prime Material plane, quickwoods could be found in the Domains of Dread.
Other creatures sometimes charmed or convinced quickwoods into serving as guardians of an area or repositories for treasure, placing it within their trunk orifice. When acting as guardians they would send out a hollow drumming sound upon sighting an intruder, which could be heard from over a  away.
Quickwoods were a favored monster of the deity Rillifane Rallathil.