Rabbits were common animals throughout the Realms.
It was not uncommon to find them cooked and served in taverns and the like, such as at the Elfstone Tavern in Waterdeep.
They were considered exotic pets in the city of Sigil, where they were considered clean and quiet. They sold for two copper pieces.
The moor rabbit was found in the region of High Moor. They were rather scrawny, but quite tough. Their fur was usually a light brown fur, with white tuffs at the tips of their ears. They competed with the regions native moor rats for food and living space.
The spiny rabbit was found in the forest of Cormanthor. It has red fur and bright green eyes, but otherwise resembled a normal rabbit. It was usually calm and placid, but if startled, three spines on its stomach became erect. These spines gave the rabbit its name, and could prove deadly if they pierced the skin.
The sage Elminster heard tales of a kind of rabbit living in the Brynwood in the Vast that was capable of whistling like a canary. It could even be taught a surprising number of tunes.
Rabbits were common throughout the Sword Coast, the North, and the Savage Frontier. Including the Pellamcopse Woods outside of Waterdeep. They were very abundant in the Dalelands, including the regions Dun Hills.  In west Faerûn, they could be found in both the Eastern and Western Heartlands. Rabbits were a common sight in the city-states of the Blade Kingdoms in the Vilhon Reach.
In the Unapproachable East, rabbits could be found in the Yuirwood and Ashenwood.
Rabbits were quite abundant on the island of Evermeet, where they were hunted by gold elves.
Beyond Toril, rabbits could be found on the planets Chandos and Garden.
Beyond the Prime Material plane, rabbits could be found in the woods of Barovia.
A pixie rides atop the back of a rabbit.
Rabbits were a favored animal of the deity Shaundakul, who would send them to guide or aid his faithful.
* Due to their abundance in the region, rabbits were a common source of food in the Dalelands.
* It was quite common for inns of average quality in the Realms to serve rabbit meat as the third part of a four-course meal.
* The Black Horse in Archenbridge often served pies with rabbit meat as filling.
* The High Flagon in Waterdeep offered its patrons savory tarts filled with small game, such as rabbits.
* In Neverwinter, some impoverished folk were known to bake savory pies with rabbit meat as a filling.
In the , the Harpell family of wizards transformed a group of Malarite worshipers into rabbits to prevent them from harming each other or the folk of Longsaddle.