Riding lizards were a common species of large, sleek subterranean reptiles that were used as mounts by most of the major races of the Underdark, in particular the drow, as well as a food source by other creatures of the Underdark.
Riding lizards were large, roughly comparable in size to a horse, but smaller than a pack lizard. Their legs were splayed wide They typically walked on all fours, much like a newt or monitor lizard,
thumb|An ebon riding lizard from the Underdark.|330x330px
Riding lizards preferred to take to the walls and ceiling rather than travel on the ground where predators could more easily track them.
Drow often used magical means of compulsion in the training and use of riding lizards so that they would be both fearless and perfectly obedient.
Riding lizards had a very keen balance. Due to their diets, the species had built up an immunity to poisons of arachnids, centipedes, and other insects, as well as all fungal spores. Trained riders could stay seated when their mount was upside-down. They had infravision up to , but they were susceptible to partial blindness due to bright light, though some could not see in the dark and instead relied upon their keen sense of smell.
Riding lizards could bite, kick with their hind legs, and jump up to  horizontally and  upwards.
In the wild, these lizards ran in large, loose packs that mated often but didnt form family units. The strongest riding lizards of either sex served as guardians for other members of their pack, though the defense and feeding of the pregnant was considered the responsibility of all members of the pack. Females birthed their young live, producing on average around one to eight every seven months or so.
Riding lizards were an omnivorous species, noted for eating snakes, centipedes, rats, lichen, and fungi.
Many riding lizards were raised in captivity by drow, who occasionally captured wild specimens (typically by use of spells) in order to vary their bloodlines. It took over a year of training to make a riding lizard fully obedient to more than one rider and follow silent directions. A finely trained mount could sell for as high as 1,000 gold pieces, though most only went for around 600 or 700 gp, while young and untrained riding lizards typically sold for around 200 to 500 gp.
Though they were seen as being most advantageous for traversing the Underdark, such as Vhaeraunans on their new moon stag hunts.
Most drow noble houses had at least a few riding lizards, with the larger houses able to support whole squadrons of riding lizard cavalry armed with crossbows carrying poisoned bolts. Many drow house insignias were also magically enspelled to control riding lizard mounts.
Beyond the drow, riding lizards were commonly used as mounts by gold dwarves and the shield dwarves of Iltkazar. They were raised by duergar across much of the Middledark, who considered riding lizard meat a staple of their diet. Comparatively, drow would only ever eat those who died of misfortunate circumstances.
Around the 14 century DR, Vhurn Bhaelyndryns Bestiary in the bazaar of Menzoberranzan was known to supply riding lizards and their associated gear. Also around this time, the city of Ched Nasad supplied riding lizards to surface-dwelling drow in the Dalelands through means of the Ched Nasad portal.
Circa 1480 DR, Vhurns establishment was still supplying riding lizards to denizens of the Underdark. 
ByokThe mount of Tiago Baenre, killed in 1466 DR.