River spirit folk were a type of spirit folk found in Kara-Tur.
River spirit folk looked almost identical to humans. Their bodies were slender and thin. Their gold or yellow skin was the main distinguishing feature from that of a human. Their clothing was usually plain, similar to that worn by many Kara-Turan peasants.
River spirit folk were capable and skillful fighters. They used weapons in combat and were most often seen wielding daggers, short swords, or spears. River spirit folk often trained to become bushi, kensai, or samurai.
River spirit folk had a strong attunement to water and as a result had unique powers in regards to water. They were expert swimmers, moving through water as if it were air. While in the water, anything that they carried remained dry.
They had a natural resistance to any spell or magical items that involved the elements of water but were vulnerable to fire and any fire-based magic. They had the innate ability to duplicate the effects of a speak with animals spell at will, but this only allowed communication with fish. They also had the innate ability to duplicate the effects of a lower water spell once per day.
All river spirit folk were part of a clan. They had cordial relations with humans, even being sought after as marriage partners and forming families. They were usually hired as fishermen, guides, or hunters.
River spirit folk served the Lord of the Rivers and were required to obey this spirit lord. Disobedience, which brought dishonor to the spirit lord, was punished by inflicting a natural disaster on the perpetrator and his or her family.
River spirit folk preferred to settle near their associated rivers or streams. 
The life-forces of river spirit folk were connected to their rivers. The spirit folk suffered damage if their rivers were subjected to drastic changes in depth or flow. If ill or injured, they returned to their rivers, where they were completely cured instantly of any disease or wounds. Their connection to their rivers was not affected by their vicinity to it, and thus they were able to travel away from their rivers, even to great distance.
The diet of a river spirit folk was composed of river plants and fish. They were able to breathe both in the air and in fresh water.
* Chen Ching Chien
* Kogi
* Kotaro Taro
* Miyoshi