Ruin chanters were melancholy fey that lived in the ruins of cities.
Ruin chanters resembled gaunt humanoids about  tall, with skin that could be tan to grey in color and silvery hair. Their eyes were all black, without any white or iris. Ruin chanters typically wore ragged clothing of earthen tones. Common articles of clothing included cloaks, hats, scarves, and goggles.
Ruin chanters were sorrowful creatures that cared little about anything outside of their home. They were hostile towards those who came to plunder the ruins they lived in.
Ruin chanters had a number of innate magical abilities. They were immune to both poison and disease, but, like other fey, were vulnerable to cold iron. They could also fly despite not having wings.
Ruin chanters could curse people with infirmity of either the body or the mind. In both cases, the victim appeared aged skin became wrinkled, hair turned white, and their posture became stooped. When the body was effected, the victim grew physically weak and in poor health. When the mind was effected, the victim grew senile and could not reliably tell friends from foes. These curses could not be placed on the same creature, and lasted an hour. A remove curse spell could dispel either curse.
Additionally, once per week a ruin chanter could summon a ruin elemental. The ritual took one hour, and for the duration of the ritual a storm manifested over the ruin chanters home. The ruin elemental would serve the ruin chanter until it was destroyed. Most ruin chanters had multiple ruin elemental servants.
When forced into combat, ruin chanters preferred to send their ruin elemental servants into melee while using their own spell-like abilities. They would conceal the fact that they could fly by leaping, and would lure opponents onto unstable structures in this way.
Ruin chanters were solitary fey that were personifications of worldly decay. They lived in ancient ruins and sang songs of past glories, or dirges of what was lost. They ate ash and dust, and drank whatever water was found in their home. Air full of dust or grit did not bother them, and they slept on beds of rubble.
Ruin chanters sometimes kept each others company. They respected each others territory, and a visiting ruin chanter would sing a song as they approached the home of another, who would then either sing a song of welcome or warning. When a male and female met, they would mate and produce children, who would in turn seek their own homes far from their parents.
Ruin chanters were known to tolerate other creature living in their ruined domains besides themselves, mainly constructs, undead, or creatures native to the area. Any beings devoted to restoration were also accepted. Any creature that entered ones domain for any reason other than restoration or mere subsistence was the feys enemy.
In the late 1300s DR, factions of both the Red Wizards and the Zhentarim actively searched ruins in the deserts and tundra where ruin elementals were suspected to be found, as such creatures typically guarded powerful magical artifacts. Whether they knew that such entities were created by ruin chanters is unclear, but they were willing to pay handsome sums of money for more information about such ruins.