Saru were a species of intelligent gorilla-like apes that dwelt in the jungles of the Malatran Plateau of Kara-Tur.
Sarus similarity to gorillas came from their strong large upper arms with the span of , and short, stout legs. Some saru were known to resemble orangutans. Saru, on average were between  and . Their entire bodies were covered in black or copper-red fur, leaving faces, palms, and soles of their feet bare. Saru had slight sexual dimorphism, with the females usually being slightly shorter than males.
Saru were kind, curious, and peaceful creatures that felt no animosity towards other sentient species of the jungle. They were friendly towards the korobokuru folk who, for some reason, felt strong antipathy to saru. The only creatures saru truly hated were the dreaded leopard katanga who prayed on and consumed saru children. They also felt a special kinship with animals, whom saru considered to be "persons." Saru delighted in communicating with animals of the Living Jungle and loved being responded to by those creatures who understood them, such as apes, monkeys, humans, and demihumans. This affection for all living things often led to saru approaching hippos, lions, sloths in search of a conversation, and just as often, sent them fleeing for dear life from predators less inclined to converse.
Most saru took on the roles of warriors, thieves, or combinations of thereof. On rare occasions, saru were known for taking religious roles of shamans, exclusively female occupation.
As a species, saru often displayed fright of magic, especially its visual displays, that could leave them paralyzed in fear.
Saru spoke their own complex langue that consisted of vocal sounds like grunts, hoots, and screams, as well as rich use of hand motions and facial expressions. They were capable of learning other languages, and many adventuring saru did. They also knew the ape language spoken by apes and monkeys, and well as monkey katanga.
Because of sarus natural affinity to animals, they were treated as friends by domesticated and wild beasts alike, as if they were under the effects of the friends spell. This ability to commune with animals could be triggered once per day by all saru.
All saru were great climbers but could not swim.
thumb|A 310x310px
In combat, saru relied on the use of weapons, learned from the Nubari and shu neighbors. They relied on such arms as clubs and spears of their own creation, but they were perfectly capable of wielding more complex weapons acquired from other communities of the jungle. However, saru were never truly disarmed as their great arms were powerful weapons in their own right. When entering unarmed combat, saru pummeled their opponents with both hands dealing significant damage in the process.
Saru valued family above all else. Their clans often consisted of individuals related by blood. Mates were considered to be as close to a family as those of the same blood. Saru society did not know the concept of marriage, and saru couples were simply called mates. Saru clans did not hesitate to adopt strays of orphans into the community and the family. An average clan consisted of three or four adult male apes, four to six females, and up to four children. Saru reached adulthood at the age of 16, while females traditionally were caregivers for the young. Males typically were hunters and fighters. Some saru communities consisted of four or more clans forming villages, while other clans preferred solitude, only gathering together in times of strife or dire seasonal weather. Traditional saru communities did not have settlements. They lived nomadic lives, moving from one part of the Living Jungle to another. Saru villages were generally small, just several handfuls of simple huts of dried grass and packed mud.
It was a common assurance for saru youth to leave their homes in search of adventure and thrill.
Saru worshipped a demigoddess named Cheeah, who walked the Malatran Plateau. Those females who received a call from the deity embarked on a pilgrimage to find her and take on the role of Cheeahs "clerics." 
Following their first contact with tribes of the Living Jungle, saru began adopting the cultural aspects of their new neighbors. From them, saru adopted the custom of wearing simple clothing like loincloths, belts to hold weapons, and rough-hewn jewelry. Saru were fascinated by other intelligent creatures and liked to imitate their activities.
thumb|An overly-friendly saru.|339x339px
Saru were omnivores. Their diet consisted of vegetables, nuts, roots, insects, and small animals. Despite having a small amount of meat in their diet, saru equated eating flesh to cannibalism, the belief that made them bad dinner guests among other tribes of the Malatran Plateau.
Saru were believed to had evolved from the gorillas of the living jungle. However, the truth of the seeming accelerated evolutionary rate remained a mystery.
As of the 14 century DR, saru were still relatively new members of the Malatran tribes. Sarus first contact with the Nubari and shu happened only a century prior.
In the late 14 century DR, The Year of Discovery on the Malatran calendar, a small unnamed saru village on the shores of the Sleepy Lake fell ill with a wasting sickness. A vein earth spirit named Ligela cursed the saru after one of the villages youths broke a taboo and accidentally fell on a patch of sacred flowers. A group of heroes of the Living Jungle sent from the Tribe of Big Chief Bagoomba helped the villages survivors to appease the spirit, but the damage done was irreversible. The village was devastated, and the survivors had no other choice but to join another saru tribe.
*Ban-Nut and Choc-Choc, a duo of saru young orphaned after their mother was consumed by ravenous valley ants in The Year of Gathering Darkness.
*Crash, a dim-witted saru adventurer and companion of equally intelligent adventurers named Rowr, and Budd, in the late 14 century DR.
*Magilla, a saru shaman leader of the Sleepy Lake village circa The Year of Discovery.
*Mokka, the chieftain on a non-nomadic and unnamed saru village, inspired by the stationary life of the Tribe of Big Chief Bagoomba circa The Year of Gathering Darkness.