| weight       = 
| skincolor    = Light blue
| haircolor    = Seaweed-green
| hairstyles   = 
| eyecolor     = 
| build        = Humanoid
| distinctions = Visible gills
| appearrefs   = 
| first        = 
| based        = 
| histrefs     = 
Sea sprites were a form of marine sprite that inhabited tropical coral reefs. Though they were capable of breathing air, they rarely went on land.
Sea sprites were  tall and humanoid in form. Their faces were typically described as cheerful, with round cheeks and large, fish-like eyes the hair was the color and texture of seaweed. Gills were visible on the neck. Sea sprites skin was slick, and a light blue color. Unlike other sprites, sea sprites did not have wings, instead adapting to their aquatic habitats with webbed fingers and toes.
Sea sprites normally wore brightly-colored eelskin jerkins. They would adorn themselves with ornaments made from ocean treasures.
Sea sprites could turn invisible at will and could also detect good/evil within . Thrice each day, a sea sprite could cast slow with a touch, and once each day could cast airy water.
Sea sprites carried special crossbows that functioned equally well above and below water. They coated the bolts of these crossbows with a sleeping ointment. They preferred to not kill creatures they put to sleep (except sahuagin), and even went so far as to leave air-breathers on a nearby beach, provided they had not harmed nor attempted to harm the sprites home reef.
Sea sprites were native to tropical coral reefs, where they made their homes in natural caves or amid wrecked ships, in communities of four or five families. Each community was lead by the eldest male and his mate. Sea sprites decorated their homes in a cheerful style, using a mixture of shells, bones, pearls, treasures taken from shipwrecks, and free-swimming, colorful pet fish.
Sea sprites ate seaweed, crustaceans, and fish they raised fish themselves and avoided depleted the resources of their reefs. They were also known to raise larger, carnivorous fish such as barracudas as guard animals and pets.
They were a reclusive people, and their only natural enemies were sahuagin. They were known to trade with sea elves, but not to mix socially with them.
Certain specialty priests could take the form of a sea sprite using either the faerie form spell (granted by Erevan Ilesere) or sylvan creature form (granted by Corellon). Additionally, sea sprites were favored as divine servants by Erevan Ilesere and Hanali Celanil.