-edition Monster Manual]].
Sea gulls, also known as gulls, were a mundane species of seabird found in the Realms.
These birds measured around  in length, from beak to tail, and had wingspans of . Their feathers were typically white, though some had a black coloration.
A gull squawks in Luskan
Gulls were skilled at flying long distances over water, but were not that agile. They were capable of swimming, but only on the surface level of water.
In the mid–14 century DR, a Cormyrean freesailor by the name of Dalvar Corzon worked to domesticate many of the sea gulls that inhabited the coast of Cormyr and carefully train them to carry messages, much like the carrier pigeons that were used in Waterdeep. He only had limited success in this endeavor, though some of his sea gulls managed to deliver messages that proved critical to Cormyrs success during the Time of Troubles of 1358 DR and the Horde War of 1360 DR.
Calathra A species of seagull that was indigenous to the Arnaden region. but much like the typical gull they were born with gray and white feathers. However, over time their feathers took on a green tinge due to their time spent in the Lake of Steam.
Gullion A species of seagull that had adapted to life in Wildspace.
Sea gulls ate a wide variety of food including carrion, fish, snails, worms, and even some vegetables like turnips, though their most preferred food was fish.
thumb|A greedy seagull in the harbors of Neverwinter.
These birds were typically found inhabiting areas within  of any coastline and near any inland body of water. And in the Sea of Fallen Stars, particularly large sea gulls could be found around the isle of Sumbar.
In north Faerûn, these birds could be found around the coastal cities of Tantras and Ravens Bluff, as well as Harrowdales small set of islands calld the Shoulder. However, they were largely absent from Ravens Bluffs Mortonbrace neighborhood, owing to the areas very territorial ravens.
In west and north Faerûn, sea gulls could typically be found at any port along the normally temperate Sword Coast, such as Waterdeep and Neverwinter. They could also be found around the coast of Cormyr. Further north, they could be encountered around the Great Glacier.
In Kara-Tur, these birds could be found in the region of Wa, such as around the Paikai islands.
Beyond the Prime Material plane, sea gulls could be found in the Domains of Dread, particularly in Draga Salt-Biters domain of Saragoss. They could also be found in the plane of Acheron.
Sea gulls were favored animals of the Untheric deity Ramman, as well as the Faerûnian powers Shaundakul and Valkur. Shaundakul was known to send gulls to guide or aid his faithful. And Valkur specialty priests, stormharbors, often had a sea gull design embroidered on their outfits with gold thread in the belief that it would bring them good luck.
The inhabitants of the Paikai islands believed these birds to be representatives of the souls of the dead. They held an annual ceremony, called the Festival of Seagulls, in which they would leave out plates of raw meat for them.
In the Shutters, one of the neighborhoods of Ravens Bluffs Crows End District, impoverished children would often try to kill any sea gulls that swooped down by throwing sticks and stones at them. They would then bring the bird back to their homes to be made into food.
In the Great Glacier region, they were one of the many staple birds in the diet of Iulutiuns. And the inhabitants of Cragmyr would also supplement the chickens they raised by slinging down gulls.
Some aquatic rangers were known to have gulls as animal companions. Mages that practiced sea magic often had them as familiars and used them as targets for the spell animal messenger. Those summoned by the spell find familiar typically had black feathers and were in the larger range of size.
The feather of a seagull was used as a material component in the spell gullship.
* Seagulls were one of many common species of bird that made warriors in Hlondeth uneasy.
* Any humanoid that sat on the magical granite throne inside Dangwaru could transform themselves into a sea gull for a period of eight hours.
* The staff of birdcalls allowed its wielder to mimic the call of a seagull.