long in diameter
Shadow sea serpents were a nightmarish cross between a whale and an eel.
This giant aquatic creature had a bulbous head with a protruding luminescent lantern, and a mouth shaped like a beak filled with curved teeth. Its elongated body sprouted from the creatures neck and ended in tail flukes. The neck was crowned with small flippers. Its slimy skin was shiny and had a color of dirty slate with veins of light gray.
The serpents were intelligent and could be tasked with guarding a place or an object or to patrol in the seas and on the shores. They preferred to hide in the shallows and attack by surprising their prey. The Shadovars often sent groups of the shadow sea serpents to search the bottom for valuables.
Shadow sea serpents were air-breathing and warm-blooded predators. They could hold their breath for extended periods of time and used echolocation akin to whales (effectively a form of blindsight that extended , or  underwater). They were powerful and agile swimmers, but they were far from helpless on land. These sea serpents could use their long bodies to slither like snakes.
Shadow sea serpents hunted in packs. Their main tactic was trying to overwhelm the prey with quick attacks both physical and sonic. When attacking underwater, the serpents circled their prey, attacking with sonic lances (from ) and sonic waves ( spread), then charged into close combat.
When in close combat, shadow sea serpents attempted to scatter and confuse their prey. Out of the water, they relied on their sonic attacks to slow fleeing opponents.
Shadow sea serpents lived in the cool and gloomy sea depths. Their preferred diet was living and warm flesh, but they ate anything they were able to catch or find when in a pinch. The serpents had a unique method of communication with each other through a system of clicks, screeches, and whistles.
Even though they loved the freedom of the sea and were aware of the fact they were created to serve, the Shadovars used gifts of living prey to buy the shadow sea serpents loyalty, to use them as hunting animals and guardians.
Shadow sea serpents were bred by the Shadovar by combining the worst aspects of carnivorous whales and creatures from the Plane of Shadow.
The Shadovar planned on introducing shadow sea serpents into bodies of water different from the Shadow Sea. It was unknown whether it was a part of a conquest plan or economic disruption.