Shadows were a type of incorporeal undead.
Shadows were incorporeal and were hard to see in dark areas but were easy to see in brightly lit areas.
Shadows hated life and light. Against living creatures, shadows were very aggressive and quick to attack, they were known to hesitate briefly when confronted with someone wearing a silkstone. Their favored victims were innocent creatures, who lived morally good lives.
Their touch sapped the strength of living creatures.
The touch of a shadow was painfully chilly and sapped the targets strength away. Every time they sapped the strength of their victim, the victims shadow darkened. On death, the shadow split away, if the victim wasnt evil and rose as a shadow enslaved to the killer.
As an incorporeal creature, a shadow could fly. It had acute senses and a shadows normal strategy was to hide in a dark place and attack bypassing creatures.
While in dark areas, a shadow could hide away from view. and it could also move through cracks of only 1 inch width.
Shadows were encountered alone, in gangs of two to five or in swarms of six to eleven individuals.
Shadows could be found anywhere, preferring to hide in dark places before attacking creatures who passed by.
Beyond Toril, shadows could be found on the dark part of the planet Radole due to a gate to the Negative Material plane.
Beyond the Prime Material plane, shadows could be found in the Domains of Dread and Palpitatia the 241 layer of the Abyss.
The drow deities Kiaransalee and Vhaeraun were served by shadows, and they were sometimes sent by them to aid their followers. Shadows were also known to serve Eshowdow of Chult, where they played a central role in the sinister rituals of the Eshowe.
Some clerics of Shar, known as Nightcloaks, were capable of summoning shadows to their aid.
250px|Anastrianna Galanodel and her raven familiar Tillatal.
Anastrianna Galanodel was an elven adventurer slain by a shadow some time after the Fall of Netheril. She became an emancipated spawn when the shadow was destroyed by her companions. In the Year of the Wan Shades, −306 DR, she joined an army of similarly freed "wan shades" to strike against the many undead of Netheril.