Shaedlings were a species of evil fey descended from pixies "blessed" by Lolth.
Shaedlings were  tall and weighed about . They were, like many smaller fey, humanoid in form with dragonfly-like wings, though both the skin, eyes, and wings were black in color. Their most distinct feature was the pair of spinnerets that protruded from the abdomen. They did not wear clothing.
Shaedlings were chaotic and cruel they respected only strength, and their short lifespans made them short-sighted, wasteful, greedy, and prone to fits of rage when they did not get what they sought. They would serve other creatures only if it offered the opportunity for them to cause mayhem.
Shaedlings were distinguished by the power that Lolth blessed them with from their spinnerets, they could spin items out of shadow-gossamer. This items dissipated once they were out of a shaedlings possession for too long. Additionally, shaedlings were naturally proficient with any weapons they made out of it, which were extremely lightweight (always less than ).
Secondarily, a shaedling could create a wall of darkness some  long once each day, interfering with the sight of any creature that lacked darkvision. Also once each day, they could craft a javelin of special, venomous shadow gossamer that put foes struck by it to sleep momentarily.
Shaedlings preferred the superiority that came with numbers, and one caught alone was one either out on a specific task, or had been left behind.
Sheadlings lived in small groups in temperate forests where possible, they near or alongside evil arachnid creatures such as araneas, ettercaps, or even driders. Shaedlings coupled frequently and without much regard for offspring—females laid eggs that hatched within a month, and young shaedling required little care. In some cases, they might have no guardian at all, whereupon infighting occurred amongst the hatchlings until only the toughest survived under a clear leader. They were fully-grown within a year however, as a side effect of their powers and life cycle, shaedlings only lived for twenty years at most.
Beyond their instincts, shaedlings only had a society the way a group of bandits might be said to have a culture. The strongest in each band ruled, and the weaker ones either submitted or died. They made nothing permanent themselves, and whatever they could not make out of shadow-gossamer, they stole. They disliked clothing and artwork, but were fond of magical items and shiny baubles.
Most other fey either shunned shaedlings or killed them outright only some malevolent nymphs and degenerate verdant princes would take them as servants, in which case the shaedlings were put to work as spies, thieves, and assassins, but under the oversight of more powerful fey like banshrae.
Shaedlings were too lazy and undisciplined to train or practice. The rare exceptions were known to train as rogues, and a few had sorcerous talent.
When the drow schismed from the other elves because of their worship for Lolth, a handful of pixies followed them in their religion. However, they did not follow the drow underground, and the Spider Queen instead blessed them with the "ability to weave shadows the way spiders weave webs", so that they became a terror dwelling in the forests that elves and fey loved best.