Shardsouls were crazed constructs that would accompany the Warlock Knights of Vaasa in battle. Human-sized variants were often called shardsoul slayers while larger and more powerful variants were called shardsoul avatars.
Shardsouls bodies were made of ironfell carved directly from the flesh of the primordial Telos. They appeared as monstrous automatons made of dull crystallized metal, and were notable for their claws. They had a single, unblinking purple eye located in the center of their faces. 
Each shardsoul was animated by a piece of Teloss soul. While their movements appeared jerky and almost mechanical, they were extremely agile and able to leap great distances and heights.
A shardsouls ironfell body was as hard as steel. They were unaffected by diseases or poisons, and did not require food or rest. When a shardsoul was slain, its body would crumble, and shardsouls nearby would be momentarily energized by the release of its animating spirit.
Shardsouls were deranged, and this derangement was infectious. They exuded an aura of madness that caused their enemies to turn on each other.
Larger and more powerful shardsouls could fire beams of radiant energy at targets up to  away.
Shardsouls were constantly tormented by a feeling of separation from Telos, and as such were known to be more unpredictable than most constructs, sometimes bordering on apparent madness. This made shardsouls unreliable as workers, but aggressive and eager combatants. They were aware that, if destroyed, their essence could finally be reunited with the main soul of the primordial.
Shardsouls charged into combat with suicidal ferocity, showing no heed to their own safety. They would focus their attacks on one target at a time, shredding it with their claws. All the while, the madness exuded by the shardsoul would cause their targets allies to turn on each other when they tried to save their comrade.
Shardsouls first appeared in Faerûn after Telos fell to Vaasa during the Spellplague. As of the late 15 century DR, they were being created from the body of Telos using secret rituals by the Luminaries of Telos City. By this time, the mighty shardsoul avatars had become legendary among the Warlock Knights enemies.
When Castle Perilous mysteriously rejuvenated in the , the Warlock Knights who investigated the once-ruined site used shardsouls to patrol the area.
It was suggested that the derro may have created similar mad constructs even before the arrival of Telos on Toril by forcibly splitting the spirit of an earth elemental into three pieces and trapping each derranged piece in a metal body.