Shatjan served as protectors of the frozen northern reaches of the Hordelands. They guarded the herds of reindeer found in the northern climates.
These creatures possessed the body of a man or woman, but the head of a reindeer. Their torsos were well muscled and males had large antlers crowning their head. Females had a much smaller set of antlers. Thick fur covered their head, neck, shoulders and forearms. Shatjan made their clothing from animals skins and tree bark. Most of these creatures preferred to decorate their clothing and bodies with strange symbols.
Though fearsome to behold, these creatures did not lust after combat. When forced into combat, they were incredibly comfortable fighting in the snow and ice, which was often an advantage over their attackers. Shatjan used bone-tipped weapons including harpoons, clubs, and bows.
Shatjan were capable of attacking with a special breath weapon, unleashing a blast of freezing air that traveled up to 5 ft. 
They were also able to instantly lower the air temperature around them within a 10 ft. radius. The temperature would drop by 10 degrees every minute. The shatjan remained unaffected by the temperature, but creatures nearby suffered accordingly. 
All shatjan were immune to the cold and all cold-based attacks. Magical weapons were needed to strike them. 
These solitary creatures followed the reindeer as they migrated across the vast expanse of the northern Hordelands. They would live in small communities in temporary camps during the warm summer months.
Shatjan couples mated for life. 
They could speak with reindeer as well as speak their own tongue and the language of humans who lived within their territory. 
The diet of a shatjan mirrored that of a normal reindeer. They would trade with humans for rare vegetables when they were able.
Many tribes of humans in the northern Hordelands considered shatjan to be totem spirits, spurring offerings to shatjan before every major hunt. Natives of the Hordelands always treated shatjan with respect and it was considered good luck to meet one.