Sheep were a common species of mammal and herd animal.
Sheep were covered in thick, curly wool. The color of the wool varied, often black, white or yellow in color. Male sheep had a pair of sharp horns on their head.
Sheep were domesticated and lived in herds of various sizes.
Sheep avoided combat, fleeing predators when possible. Male sheep defended their herds, charging a target and inflicting damage with their sharp horns. A herd could panic and stampede, trampling most creatures in their path.
Many creatures hunted sheep. Including
boobrie • brass dragon • chiang lung • cloud giant • dire hawk • displacer beast • giant toad • goblin rat • hill giant • kappa • morin • nightbeak • oni • orpsu • red dragon • wolf • wyvern • yeti
A flock of sheep was tended by shepherds. The larger the flock, the more shepherds were needed to safely manage the sheep.
Elturian Grey.
The milk from a sheep could be used to make cheese. In Sigil, sheeps milk was often sweetened with vanilla.
Among halflings, sheep were considered a valuable part of a farm, and the milk and meat from sheep was an integral part of halfling cuisine.  Halfling farmers in Corm Orp made a soft cheese from goats and sheep milk called Orthin.
In Zakhara, butter was made from sheeps milk. A popular drink, rakiq, was a beverage made from sheeps milk and garlic known for its tang. The Al-Badia, nomadic tribes who roamed Zakhara, used mutton as the main course for banquets for honored guests. The considered the tail of a sheep a delicacy, with the guest of honor presented the fatty and succulent dish.
Kragh is an alcoholic beverage made by cyclopskin. It is made from fermented goats or sheeps milk.
Other Uses
If needed, a sheep could also be used as a pack animal.
Sheepskin was prepared in such a way it was used as a parchment. It could also be fashioned into a portable vessel for carrying water or wine. In Zakhara, sheepskin was part of a camels riding kit, where it was used as a saddle pad.
Human shepherds of the High Moor with a flock of sheep. 
The Song of the Morning was a large temple dedicated to the deity Lathander in the center of Beregost. On the east side of town were hills where its clergy tended flocks of sheep. While shepherding their livestock among the foothills, the temples priests kept a watchful eye over the unguarded eastern expanse of Beregost.
Despite the fact that the land surrounding Baldurs Gate was in poor condition for farming, farmers herded sheep and other livestock. Paddocks full of sheep were found in the Outer City.
A small settlement of shepherds lived outside of the Darkhold. Their flocks grazed on the meadows of the Sunset Mountains and they sent bales of wool to market. The small and remote village of Xonthals Tower raised sheep on the high meadows of Mount Hlim. The residents of the half-ruined village of Yarthrain herded sheep.
In the halfling town of Corm Orp, herds of sheep populated the hillsides surrounding the town.
Lands of Intrigue
In Tethyr, villages in the Starspire Mountains and Omlarandin Mountains Some rock gnomes found in Tethyr lived as sheepherders.
In Amn, sheep could be found grazing in the plateaus of the Cloud Peaks. Lamb and wool were the main exports of the settlements here, including the town of Nashkel. Farmers also herded sheep in the Small Teeth region and outside the town of Imnescar.
The Vast
Roldilar, a shield dwarf kingdom that once occupied the lands later known as the Vast, likely introduced sheep to the area.
The market village of Blanaer had so much sheep and cattle present, it was the source of a common saying in the Vast "Stinks like Blanaer". The hamlet of Sarbreenar was surrounded by narrow valleys, each home to a separate sheep farm.
Interior Faerûn
In Cormyr, the Truebreeds Guild controlled the trade, breeding and care of all livestock, including sheep. Sheep were integral to the economies of several Cormyrian settlements, including Bospir, Dreamers Rock, Eagle Peak, Eveningstar and Espar
Huthduth was a Cormyrian keep that was home to priests of Chauntea. These priests raised a large herd of sheep within the wooded valley. They employed spells to teleport themselves, and their sheep, to different grazing grounds. The priests shepherded the sheep while armed with maces and wearing chain mail. 
On Ilthan, an island in the Pirate Isles, cyclopskin herded sheep.
West Faerûn
In Calimshan, the harsh terrain meant farmers could only raise hardy livestock such as sheep. The coastal city of Manshaka was one of the main destinations for Calishite sheep farmers, where the sheep was traded.
South Faerûn
The gold dwarves of Underhome kept a large herd of sheep. They were herded within the Great Rift and was guarded by fully armored, and heavily armed, dwarven shepherds.
The Shadiar tribes in the Land of the Lions herded sheep. The towns of Talmon and Yesbpek were both surrounded by sheep ranches.
Within the Border Kingdoms, large herds of sheep grazed the fields around Ondeeme. The residents of The Realm of the Mount kept sheep in small paddocks within the forests.
North Faerûn
The farmers of the Dalelands herded sheep. The largest herds of sheep in the Dalelands were found in Mistledale.
In the remote fields of Harrowdale, Mistledale, and Tasseldale, nomadic wemic shepherds tended flocks of up to 300 sheep. They traveled from field to field and tended to allow the sheep to overgraze, leaving damaged and depleted fields in their wake. The wemic shepherds trained wild cats to help manage and protect the flocks. They avoided contact with others, responding with violence unless a stranger was seeking to trade turquoise for wool.
In Battledale, large expanses of pastoral fields were ideal for sheep grazing.
During the summer, shepherds from Harrowdale set their flocks to graze the tall grasses in the Cold Field, located between Harrowdale and Scardale. The sheep merely ignored restless spirits found in the Cold Field.
In Shadowdale, sheep were often left on their own to graze on the grasses of the Common in the center of the village. The sheep usually wandered over to Elminsters Tower to drink from the small pond that was located there.
It was rumored that wyverns living atop of Wyvernfang in the Thunder Peaks captured livestock such as sheep, allowing them to live and breed, and culled them as needed. Thus they had created a renewable source of food.
In Cormanthor, sheep could be found living in both the Rimwood and Midwood.
Sheep were also found in Anauroch. The Dtarig survived by herding sheep as well as goats. The herdsmen of Hlondath also shepherded sheep.
Unapproachable East
Sheep were very common in Rashemen. Vast herds of sheep were found near Mulptan.
In Aglarond, numerous farmers tended to flocks of sheep. On the Fang, where the land is barren and craggy and unsettled, lived solitary farmers tending to small flocks of sheep. The village of Urst, on the edge of the Yuirwood, both human and half-elf farmers shepherded sheep.
Shining South
Farmers in Halruaa employed magic to aid them while herding sheep. Sheep grazed in the pasture-land surrounding the village of Crimel Pyratar, capital city of Var, was home to several large herds of sheep.
Old Empires
In Mulhorand, the Great Vale is home to large herds of sheep. Most of the sheep farms here used slave labor. 
Sheep were so common in Unther that there was over 200 words for sheep in Untheric. Similar to Mulhorand, the sheep farms used slave labor.
In Chessenta, the sheep farm workers were usually serfs instead of slaves. A large number of sheep farms were located on the plains found north of Akanamere. The Flaming Spike, an orc tribe in western Chessenta, raised sheep.
Underdark
Sheep could even be found in the Underdark. Sheep were kept in small pens on the Isle of Rothe in Menzoberranzan. Deep gnomes often cultivated herds of sheep on the outskirts of their towns, doing their best to keep the herds quiet and uninteresting to potential attackers.
Colonists in Ulatos introduced sheep to the continent of Maztica. The sheep were transported by ship from the Sword Coast.
The nine major tribes of the High Desert in Zakhara kept herds of sheep numbering in the thousands. Nomadic tribes of Jann traveled with their herds, which included sheep, between fertile lands and oasis. Some ogre giant tribes also kept herds of sheep.
Sheep grazed in the grasslands found to the east of the city of Fahhas. Since cloth was an integral part of the economy of Huzuz, the city was surrounded by many sheep farms. Around the city of Qudra, the less fertile land is used for grazing both sheep and goats. The small coastal settlements of the Masud Jazayir islands herded sheep.
In the Hordelands, the Tuigan raised and herded sheep.  Sheep were found in great numbers on the Katakoro Plateau
Within the Raurin desert, sheep lived in small flocks, isolated to the oases.
Sheep were part of the local economies of several settlements in the Hordelands, including Delbyl, Khazari, Quaraband and Ra-Khati.
In Tabot, villagers herded sheep across the high plateau. The herds were large, numbering in the thousands of individual sheep.
The tribes of the Plain of Horses herded sheep, with flocks large enough to contain a thousand sheep or more. The sheep of the Plain of Horses tended to be larger than sheep found elsewhere in Kara-Tur.
In the Koryaz Mountains of the Northern Wastes, the Pazruki relied on herding sheep as it was their primary source of meat.
Larger korobokuru settlements kept herds of sheep.
On the continent of Laerakond, feral sheep roamed the countryside of Relmaur. 
The gnomes of Dothion, the first layer of Bytopia, kept herds of silver-wooled sheep. Silver-wooled sheep were also found on Arcadia. On Olympus, sheep were found in great numbers. Sedentary bariaur living on Ysgard tended sheep.
Sheep were common in the Feywild. Many Feywild settlements kept herds of sheep.
Yondalla, the creator and matriarch of halflings, was served by sheep.
Circa , Mirabar began offering large sums of silver to entice sheepherders and their flocks to migrate to the city. The purpose was to provide Mirabar with a ready supply of wool for their harsh winters.
Crag Sheep
Crag sheep were found within Anauroch. Crag sheep lived in the Plain of Standing Stones. They grazed in the valleys and were hunted by most predators in the area.
Mountain Sheep
Frost folk kept herds of mountain sheep. Farmers living in the rugged parts of the Land of the Lions raised hardy mountain sheep. Mountain sheep were a main source of meat for the Azuposi. Mountain sheep were the favorite food of mountain giants. Mountain sheep were herded by stone giants.
* The Durinbold, a noble family on the Sword Coast, were known for their sheep farms.
* Hlorn Estle and his family owed the biggest sheep herd in Espar, the farmers sons and their vicious dogs were guarding the livestock as it grazed on the green hills outside the village.
* The Theresparin family of Cormyr, a family of landlords and weavers, was known for their large herds of sheep.