Shiradi were a type of celestial eladrin best known for wandering the planes to fight for freedom and help the oppressed and deceived.
Unlike other celestial eladrin, shiradi were large and heavily muscled humanoids some  tall and weighing about . They had wild black hair that seemed to move on its own, piercing black eyes, gleaming bronze skin, and great, bronze-feathered wings that seemed to shine faintly. The facial features were oft described as "bold and striking", while the ears were pointed and had serrated lobes.
Like other eladrin, shiradi had a alternate form, that of a swirling cloud of golden and triangular light shards. They could change forms at will and such a change could not be dispelled, for both forms were equally true to them- and indeed, true seeing would show both forms at once.
Shiradi were impulsive but tireless warriors of good, actively seeking out areas where they could defend freedom as was their wont. They were creative, individualistic, and courageous and devoted warriors. They were also considered the most morally flexible of celestials because of their belief that all creatures are, or should be, free to act and think as they desire- though only so long as they do not infringe on the freedom of others.
Shiradi, like most other celestials, had a number of potent abilities. They were innately aware of any enchantment effects affecting any creature within  of them. They also could, at will, radiate a nimbus of light with the same radius that acted as both a magic circle against evil of double strength and a lesser globe of invulnerability. A more mundane talent of the shiradi was their skill at reading people.
The shiradi were not spellcasters, but did have spell-like abilities. Naturally active at all times were effects akin to the spells blessed sight, discern lies, and see invisibility. At will, they could replicate the spells aid, bless, bless weapon, detect poison, detect undead, greater dispel magic, divine favor, remove curse, remove fear, remove paralysis thrice per day they could affect the spells break enchantment, holy smite, and restoration and once per day they could affect the spells cloak of chaos and heal. It was noted that shiradi had some sacred talent for breaking enchantment spells with greater dispel magic and break enchantment.
And, like all celestial eladrin, shiradi were no less dangerous in their alternate form than in their humanoid form in both forms one could fly and use their spell-like abilities, though in the humanoid form they fought with great spiked chains, while in the cloud form they simply slammed into the enemy, effective even against incorporeal creatures, and which automatically enacted an effect akin to greater dispel magic upon the target.
In combat, their creative and variable personalities made them inventive tacticians, and they often used their abilities to surprise foes where possible. In the opening stages of a fight, shiradi preferred to keep enemies within reach of the spiked chain that they were traditionally skilled with while casting beneficial spells such as bless weapon and divine favor. Additionally, any weapon a shiradi wielded was naturally imbued with both celestial and chaotic energy.
Shiradi, like other celestial eladrin, were native to Arborea, and were recorded as living in both Arborea and the Gates of the Moon.