| wingspan     = 
| weight       = 
| skincolor    = White
| haircolor    = 
| hairstyles   = 
| feathers     = 
| eyecolor     = 
| build        = 
| distinctions = 
| appearrefs   = 
| first        = 
| based        = 
| histrefs     = 
Sink worms were a giant species of worm found only within the vast expanses of sand and the Sea of Silt on the desert world of Athas.
A mature sink worm fully measured around  or more in length. Their huge maws measured  across, lined on the inside with sword-like teeth, large enough to swallow humans and demihumans whole. Their bodies had a pale white coloration, giving them a resemblance to maggots.
While moving, sink worms would suck in surrounding sand or silt for minute air particles, then filter those substances out through a sort of "gills". These were considered a curiosity among Athasian sages and the process left a sunken depression in the surface of wherever they passed.
These creature had a rather basic, animal level of intellect and were very aggressive hunters.
These creatures had sharp senses, making it hard to surprise them. They could sense the vibrations of people moving through their habitat, as far as  in silt and  in sand.
Sink worms also possessed the unique ability to phase their bodies forward through sand and rock, no more than . This typically was used in order to surpass any rocky outcroppings in their habitat, though on rare occassions a particularly hungry sink worm might use it while on the surface to surge ahead of running prey. They were unable to activate this ability if they had prey within their mouth.
Sink worms preferred to sneak up on their prey silently and burst out to swallow them once they were almost underneath the prey. They had no means of fighting other than their huge maws, thus they would swiftly retreat beneath the sand or silt whenever they were injured.
In The Year of Despair, Malatran calendar, late 14 century DR, a group of heroes of the Living Jungle were sent from the Malatran Plateau through an elemental gate to the far-away world of Athas. Immediately upon arrival, the group was captured by Athasian elf slavers. A young Athasian thri-kreen named Kacha was among the creatures captured by the elves, and he lamented being separated from his clutch. On the dawn of the fourth day a ravenous sink worm attacked the eleven caravan, giving the heroes the opportunity to escape. They seized it and freed Kacha, fleeing from the pursuers across the desert. The beast managed to devour ten of the Athasian elves and gravely wound twenty before it was dealt a finishing blow by their chieftain, Ramok Firehar.
The sink worm was a species that lived a solitary existence, only meeting with others of their kind once every three years for the purpose of mating. Young were birthed as eggs, usually buried at least  beneath the surface of the sand or silt. Silt worms never returned to their young, leaving the hatchlings to fend for themselves and almost inevitably turn to cannibalize each other.
These creatures were a carnivorous species, needing to feed upon at least one human-sized creature each day.