Skeletons were undead animated corpses similar to zombies, but completely devoid of flesh and did not feed on the living. They could be made from virtually any solid creature, and as such their size and power varied widely. In addition to the basic humanoid skeleton, there were also skeletons created from wolves, trolls, ettins and even giants.
The undead form of skeletons was held by necromantic energy, which kept otherwise loose bones and joints together and conferred on the undead corpse a glimmer of vitality and rudimentary intellectual capabilities.
Although skeletons were most typically created from humanoid remains, many other varieties existed.
 Animal skeleton  A general term for skeletons created from the corpses of small to medium-sized vertebrate animals, such as warhorse skeletons.
 Baneguard  First developed by priests of Bane, these skeletons could phase in and out and hurl bolts of magical energy.
 Blazing bones  Fiery skeletal undead created when a spellcasters contingency spell goes wrong.
Bonecrusher
 Bonebat  A bat-like skeletal creature, created from either the bones of several bats or one giant bat.
 Burnbones  Powerful priests of Cyric who have been transformed into their current undead state as a special favor from the Dark Sun. Their place within the church of Cyric is as the baneliches within the church of Bane.
 Decrepit A skeleton that was particularly old and slowly crumbling apart.
 Direguard  Baneguards improved by the Church of Cyric, these skeletons are wreathed in a shadowy field of force that functions as armor. They could also see invisible foes.
 Merrow skeleton  A skeletal undead form of the merrow.
left|A minotaur skeleton.
 Minotaur skeleton  A skeleton created from the corpse of a minotaur.
 Skeleton warrior  Powerful skeletons were created from great warriors who retained all of their fighting skills and enslaved to magical circlets. Highly resistant to magic and difficult to command, skeleton warriors were rarely found in groups greater than two or three.
 Skeletal dragon  Created from a dragon and retained some of their deadly abilities. Not to be confused with a dracolich.
Athach skeleton • Blazing skeleton • Bloody bones • Boneshard skeleton • Bonewretch skeleton • Death kin skeleton • Defiling skeleton • Dread • Dry bones • Frost skeleton • Gem eyes • Insectoid • Lightning skeleton • Marrowshriek skeleton • Monster skeleton • Obsidian skelton • Runeflame skeleton • Shattergloom skeleton • Skeletal tomb guardian • Skinwalker skelton • Skleros • Spine creep skeleton • Stonespawned skeleton • Tortured skeleton • Vicious skeleton
Animated skeletons were immune to mind-affecting spells they could not be rendered unconscious and could not tire. Edged and piercing weapons, such as swords and arrows, were mostly ineffective against skeletons only blunt weapons, such as warhammers, were effective at knocking the bones apart.  
Like other undead, skeletons could be repelled or destroyed outright by priests like paladins and clerics.
The necromantic spell animate dead allowed spellcasters to create skeletons. They could also spontaneously rise in locations saturated with evil or necromantic powers.