Slithermorphs were evil, amphibious creatures that could swap between amorphous and serpentine forms at will.
Slithermorphs spent most of their lives in their amorphous form, resembling a slithering mass of glistening black not unlike a black pudding. In this form, they could travel along walls and ceilings, and squeeze themselves through cracks as small as one inch (2.5 centimeters) wide. Slithermorphs were usually between ten and twelve feet in length.
Slithermorphs could change shape to their serpentine form at will, though this usually occurred when threatened or otherwise preparing for combat. The shapechange process took up to a minute, during which they were unable to act. Slithermorphs could change forms as often as they pleased, and doing so would occasionally help them recover from wounds. They were also capable of quickly and passively regenerating from injuries.
In their serpentine form, slithermorphs were scaly, snake-headed monsters with four arms and snakelike tails, closely resembling yuan-ti.
Slithermorph offspring gestated for six months before being born. Only one child was produced at a time, growing to maturity in between two and five months.
They tended to be solitary creatures, actively avoiding others of their kind. A lone slithermorph would go out of its way to establish its territory well away from the hunting grounds of other slithermorphs. Typically, the only time slithermorphs interacted with each other was during mating, which occurred whenever a male and female encountered each other. Slithermorphs rarely attacked each other this only happened if two females encountered a sole male slithermorph.
In their amorphous form, slithermorphs preferred dropping onto enemies from above, enveloping them before they could react. In addition to constricting their foes, they could discharge acid through their skin, slowly dissolving their victims. Slithermorph acid could dissolve wood and metal, but took longer to dissolve mithril, adamantite, and silver.
In serpentine form, slithermorphs could rake opponents with sharp claws. They were also able to grasp and use crude weapons.
Slithermorphs were immune to fire, acid, cold, and poison.
Slithermorphs were carnivorous scavengers who sought to control their own hunting territories. They accomplished this by removing other predators, domesticating animals, and planting food favorable to their chosen "food-herd". These herds were typically fish, clams, worms, spiders, or crayfish.
In Northwest Faerûn, some were known to dwell within the Mere of Dead Men. In the land of Thay, some could be found within the dark reaches of the Surmarsh.