Snakes or serpents were reptilian animals that had no legs. Any snake that managed to live for a particularly long time was referred to as an elder serpent.
While the majority of snakes possessed a basic animal-level of intellect, many believed that they grew wiser and more cunning with age, with those referred to as "elder serpents" believed to possess a semi- or low-intellect. Elder serpents were said to fearless in the face of fire, hoarders of gems, such as Midani in the case of Zakharan serpents.
Hordes of snakes were seen as a sign of favor from Gargauth, the Lost Lord of the Pit.
Adder A venomous snake found in the Duskwood.
Asp  A common species of venomous snake.
 Black mamba  A very aggressive snake that could grow to over  in length.
 Boomslang  A small and docile snake with a very dangerous bite.
 Bushmaster  A powerful form of viper.
 Cobra  A venomous snake with an expandable hood near the neck.
 Constrictor  Large, powerful snakes that used their bodies to wrap around and crush their prey.
 Fer-de-lance  A formidable, aggressive type of pit viper.
 Gaboon  A large-fanged viper that blended with its jungle environment.
 Glacier snake  An insatiable reptile with brown fur, ripping teeth, and a bone-tipped stinger at the tail.
 Jit snake  A large dangerous and venomous snake that dwelled in Cormanthor.
 King cobra  A very large cobra that could reach up to  in length.
 Mushroom snake A large, non-venomous snake with a mottled skin that blended well with the fungi in the hills surrounding Delzimmer in southeast Faerûn. Its primary diet was insects and it was hunted to make scaletail, a local delicacy.
 Nightviper  A venomous snake of the Nelanther Isles. А poison called Nightviper venom was extracted from its fangs.
 Sea snake  Immense vipers that lived in bodies of water.
 Tundra Widowmaker  A venomous snake.
 Viper  A common type of venomous snake that came in various sizes and colorings.
 Water moccasin  A common species of venomous snake.
 White-furred snake  A warm-blooded constrictor snake found in cold regions.