Songbirds were a clade of birds that could be found in many parts of the Realms.
 Crow
 Finch
 Jackdaw a species of songbird that had been on Toril as far back as the days of Netheril. They had an instinctive desire to amass a horde of shiny objects.
 Lark a species of songbird that had been on Toril as far back as the days of Netheril.
 Magpie another species of songbird that was noted for its thieving tendencies with shiny objects.
 Nightingales
 Sorcery crows a species of songbird that had scarlet plumage and resembled a crow. They possessed the unique ability to see into the Weave.
 Swallow a species of songbird with colorful plumage, whose existence on Toril dated as far back as the days of Netheril.
 Warbler
In Faerûn, songbirds were known to inhabit the Yuirwood, the Forest of Mir, the Farsea Marshes, and the Tun Marshes. The latter in particular was home to songbirds with brightly colored plumage, who preferred the mild climate and weather of the Tun Marshes.
Songbirds could also be found in much of northwest Faerûn.
Beyond Faerûn, songbirds of a wide variety of plumage could be found in the jungles and shores of Zakhara. On that peninsula, there was a particularly large population of them in the city of Huzuz. And the Palace of the Enlightened Throne also had many songbirds in it.
Beyond the Prime Material plane, songbirds could be found in the forests of Barovia.
Songbirds were a favored animal of the deities Mielikki, Milil, and Finder Wyvernspur. Milil especially favored nightingales.
* In the city of Ravens Bluff, the store known as the Friendly Familiar sold songbirds as pets. And in that same city, Nimbers Skewer Shop sold battered-and-fried songbirds.
* Tengu, of both the crow and humanoid variety, often kept songbirds as pets. They typically lived in cages hung from trees near a tengus lair.
* In the Grand Bazaar of Huzuz, the merchant Minak al-Zafyi sold songbirds.
* Many Zakharans considered songbird to be a valued addition to urban gardens.
* In Amphail, the store Maerlbar Eggs & Fresh Fowl had a golden-hued songbird on display in a bamboo cage. And its owner claimed that this was a Red Wizardess of Thay that had been trapped in that form by spells.
* The wight Gorra kept a caged, skeletal songbird in their office.