Star spawn manglers were a type of star spawn, creatures created by Elder Evils to act as their agents on the Prime Material plane. 
Star spawn manglers were low-slung and creeping creatures of horrific appearance. They had between four and eight gangly arms, though it was most often six. Their hunched posture made them appear shorter than they actually were. 
Star spawn manglers were both malevolent and insane. 
Star spawn manglers were fast, as well as capable at climbing. They were resistant to damage caused by low temperatures, and immune to damage inflicted by psychic attacks. Additionally, star spawn manglers were immune to charm magic and could not be magically frightened. 
Star spawn manglers tried to hide in the dark to surprise their victims. They used their many arms to unleash a flurry of claw attacks.
These star spawn were summoned by cultists to act as guards or assassins, two roles they were particularly suited for. 
Star spawn manglers could also be found on the ethereal plane.
The wizard Thalivar used the planar beacon in his tower in Leilon to lure star spawn manglers and other extraplanar creatures from the ethereal plane towards it and capture them for study. However, the Spellplague of 1385 DR broke the magical wards of the High Tower of Thalivar, releasing the manglers and other monsters within, who then killed Thalivar and rampaged through the village.
Circa 1489 DR, star spawn manglers were found inhabiting the ruins of the Abeiran city of Xorvintroth.
Circa 1491 DR, after the High Tower of Thalivar had been rebuilt, the town mage Gallio Elibro continued Thalivars research. Shortly before the Battle of Leilon, Gallio successfully captured a number of star spawn manglers with the restored planar beacon. Unfortunately, a surge of wild magic rendered him unconscious and once again unleashed all of the star spawn. A group of adventurers hunted down and killed the manglers, avoiding a repeat of the disaster that had happened more than a century earlier.