Steeders were a species of giant spider found in the Underdark.
Steeders were giant spiders, sharing many physical characteristics of their smaller cousins. Their bodies were covered in a fine fur that varied in color. They had eight powerful legs and large mandibles.
A common tactic used by duergar cavalry was to ambush a target and charge in, using the steeders mass to smash a target against a wall or push them over a cliff. Steeders instinctively used their mandibles to bite a target.
Thanks to their strong legs, steeders were excellent jumpers. They were capable of leaping  in any direction.Steeders were stated as lacking a poisonous bite in The Mines of Bloodstone and Monstrous Compendium Volume Two. In 3 edtion, they were given this ability in Races of Faerûn and it carried over into 5 edition with Mordenkainens Tome of Foes. Steeders had the innate ability to duplicate the effects of the invisibility spell once per day, which also affected their duergar rider. Steeders walked on ceilings and walls using a sticky substance secreted from the base of their legs.
Steeders were predatory and aggressive, even to one another. A steeder would instantly attempt to attack another steeder. Due to this, they are stabled in individual stalls and blinders were used when more than one steeder was used in a caravan or battle group. Steeders were capable of being trained to respond to both hand and verbal commands.
Steeders were domesticated by the duergar and employed as mounts. Female steeders were used in battle while the smaller males were used to transport cargo. A steeder was able to transport between  of cargo or equipment. Unlike other dray animals, steeders would not pull a wagon. A duergar rode on the back of the steeder in a specialized saddle made from leather. Connected to this saddle was a complicated system of prods and straps, which allowed the duergar to control and direct the steeder.
There was demand for steeder eggs, with an individual egg fetching up to 500 gp at the market. By the 1370s DR, the sale of steeder eggs was permitted to non-duergar races. Steeders had to be properly trained and a steeder trainer was considered a professional trade among the duergar. An experienced steeder trainer could charge up to 1,000 gp for their services.
Female steeders were both larger and stronger than males. They tolerated each other during mating, but afterwards the female devoured the male. Once hatched, a newborn steeder reached maturity within six months. Steeders were obligate carnivores. Steeders were selectively bred by the duergar from giant hunting spiders that were common in the Underdark. As a result, steeders were far more intelligent than their ancestors.