Stonechildren were creatures born to a union of a mortal and an elemental – people of stone and dirt, whose origins were on the Elemental Plane of Earth.
Stonechild men and women were similar in appearance to bulky muscular humanoids, but had rock-like rough gray skin. They did not have hair, and their eyes were gray or black with very rare gem-hues.
An average stonechild grew to the height of almost  and could weigh more than ,
Most stonechildren loved showing their strength, eagerly accepted challenges, and valued individuality and resilience above all else. They never panicked nor acted irrationally, often hiding their feelings behind a stern facade and practical thinking. Stonechildren did not find social conflicts to be productive, and instead of openly stating their disdain for someone, they simply left the persons company without attracting any attention to themselves. Most prided themselves on their internal feeling of honor, with was in balance with understanding and following of laws and rules, but still possessing a goodly nature and having compassion towards others.
Stonechild found kinship with races of stone, especially dwarves, were friendly with humans, and generally got along with all people. Elves and gnomes often felt uneasy around stonechildren, thinking their strength and size to be too alien, and, in turn, stonechildren found it hard to relate to and understand elves minds. However, halflings and stonechildren got along great, often traveling together.
450x450px
All stonechildren could cast the magic stone spell. They were fully immune to all poisons and acids and possessed darkvision that reached .
In battle, a stonechild was unyielding, eagerly taking on challenging foes.
Most commonly, stonechildren were born in human and dwarf communities from which they were rarely ostracized and exiled. After reaching maturity, few stonechildren born on the Prime Material plane remained lone wanderers, often becoming adventurers. Their nature guided stonechildren to find homes underneath mountains, which often allowed them to find home among the dwarves, practicing battles and stonework. However, as they aged, stonechildren began experiencing a longing for the Elemental Plane of Earth, and most eventually found their way to the elemental planes and settled among their own kind. Stonechildren that were born in the planes or those who wound their way there, tended to live their lives on the Elemental Plane of Earth and shared values with other beings of the stone, such as dwarves. Stonechildren were only summoned to other worlds and planes by powerful magics, usually to be used as soldiers under someones control.
Stonechildren did not have their own religion and ended up following the deities of the communities they were born into or joined after finding a home. Most stonechildren respected Moradins mastery over stone even if they did not necessarily worship the dwarvish god.
They spoke both Common and Terran, and despite preferring Terran, stonechildren were intelligent enough to learn new languages swiftly. The most common other language among them was Dwarvish. Their naming convention was somewhat similar to that of the dwarves but lacked the Stout Folks rigid naming rules. Each new generation of stone children created their own last names and naming conventions, and their first names were often derived from the Common Tongue.
By the late 14 century DR, stonechildren were found inhabiting Undermountain on the Sword Coast North. The hamlet of Spiderhaven counted fifty stonechildren abound its inhabitants, with Chief Constable SheruTan being among the communities authority figures.