A storm elemental was a mighty elemental that incarnated the power of storms and tempests and wielding thunder and lightning. They were found on the Elemental Plane of Air.
This elemental took the form of a dark and stormy cloud that resounded with low rumbling thunder and flashed and crackled with lightning. They varied in size, with heights of  and weights of . They speak with the voice of far-off thunder, when they bother to.
Every several seconds, as often as it willed, a storm elemental could inflict a nonlethal electrical shock to one living creature that got within  of it.
Once a minute, the storm elemental could unleash a bolt of lightning, up to  in length, to zap all in its path. At the same time, it created a crack of thunder that blasted every creature up to  away.
Being creatures of pure thunder and lighting, storm elementals were not only unharmed, but actually healed by, any magic or effect that produced electricity or sonic energy, such as shocking grasp, lightning bolt, or sound burst. However, the storm elemental naturally could not attack itself to heal.
Flying foes found it harder to attack and injure storm elementals, for they were masters of the air.
Like any storm, it had an abrupt and violent nature. Storm elementals rarely bothered to speak, but knew the elemental language of Auran. They were most delighted when surrounded by a true thunderstorm at its height. They were solitary creatures.
Storm elementals rarely left the Elemental Plane of Air, and usually only when summoned or called. However, when on the Material Plane, they went in search of natural squalls and storms, and often caused much devastation on the way.
Despite their resilience, in battle, storm elementals would rather stay high in the air, out of reach of their foes and where they could rain down lightning and thunder upon them. With more powers at its disposal than most elementals, a storm elemental was a dangerous entity. They favored wild and broken landscapes so they could fly over any obstructions and crevasses.
Storm elements of various sizes could be summoned with both the summon monster (IV to IX) and summon natures ally (III to VIII) lines of spells.
* The Tempest, a storm elemental blight summoned by a cult of Talos in the Delimbiyr Vale in the .