Sun dragons, also called solar dragons, were relatively benevolent dragons capable of natural spelljamming.
Sun dragons had a largely draconic build (four legs and two wings, long neck and tail), though slightly more serpentine than ordinary in some accounts their forelimbs ended with a set of fins or secondary wings and their primary wings glowed.
Sun dragons changed color over the course of their lifecycle at hatching, they were a fiery red that changed to burnt orange as juveniles, which in turn lightened to brilliant yellow as mature adults before paling to bluish-white when venerable. Finally, great wyrms not only paled again to bright white, but also shrank in size almost back to that of a hatchling.
The eggs of sun dragons were shiny, obsidian-black spheres that turned translucent just before hatching.
Sun dragons were glorious and gracious beings that appreciated their freedom to live as they may among the stars. They were known for being just as playful as they were ferocious.
While sun dragons indulged in treasure and wealth as nearly all other dragons, they valued nourishment of food even more. What treasure they did collect, became coated in their saliva to prevent its destruction from being so close to active stars.
Despite their benevolent nature, sun dragons were territorial predators, and could claim asteroid belts or even entire star systems as their hunting grounds. Due to their respect for intelligent life, they took care not to consume any forms of sentient life.
Sun dragons had a unique breath weapon, that released single mote of photonic, radiant energy. At a designated point, the mote erupted into a massive explosion that radiated outwards for , similar to a fireball.
They viewed lunar dragons as their most-maligned enemies.
Sun dragons made their lairs in one of two locales found throughout wildspace either in the cavities of desolate, floating rocks that were bathed in starlight, or within the actual cores of stars themselves.
While sun dragons considered most humanoid races to be savage nuisances,