Tigbanua buso () were a race of vicious and ghoulish creatures native to Kara-Tur. They were the most common type of buso, the only known other type being the victims of their infection, the tagamaling buso.
Standing  tall and emaciated, weighing only , tigbanuas had long and flexible necks, large bony feet, and gnarled hands with sharp claws. They had depressed noses, their mouths were filled with sharp teeth, and their hair was curly. Their skin was pale and had the texture of leather. The most distinguishing feature of a tigbanua was its large eye in the center of its head it could be red or yellow. Tigbanuas were generally covered in dirt, filthy, or grime.
With no clever tactics, tigbanuas simply came out under cover of night, targeting lone humanoids like vulnerable villagers and travelers. Using their sharp claws and fangs, they attacked with great ferocity whenever they got the chance. Otherwise, they were rarely brave.
The tigbanua had an aura of fear. Any creature within 10 feet (3 meters) of a tigbanua felt great fear, enough to make them cower or even be paralyzed with terror if they couldnt resist, while it was in this range. Understandably, this left them vulnerable to attack. and could be undone with remove paralysis, provided the tigbanua hadnt already killed and eaten the victim by then.
Tigbanuas transmitted a terrible disease via their claws, and any humanoid struck by them who was infected and did not seek healing became a tagamaling buso, a lesser form of the tigbanua buso.
Some tigbanuas could twist or bend their necks so they could look directly behind themselves.
Having only animal intelligence but a chaotic and evil nature, they lived alone or in small packs of up to six. 
Despite their lack of intelligence, busos had their own language.
Despite resembling ghouls in form and habit, tigbanua buso were not undead. They were carnivorous, and their diet consisted of the flesh of any animal or humanoid. Meat from corpses found in graves was considered a prized delicacy among tigbanuas.
thumb|A depiction of tigbanua busos up-close face and full body.
Although the origin of the tigbanua buso was unknown, rumors in Kara-Tur held that they were once an advanced and peaceful race who dwelt in the southern mountainous region of Shou Lung.  Afterward, the tigbanuas dispersed across Kara-Tur. 
Once, several centuries before , a human wu jen of Wa who had incredible power and incredible ambition even tried to challenge the Eight Million Gods for control of Toril. For anyone else, the gods might just have ignored him, but for a wu jen of his power, they dared not. Thus, an alliance among the gods cursed him and transformed into a tigbanua buso. This didnt exactly eliminate his threat, however as a tigbanua buso, he attacked innocents and could turn them into tagamaling busos.
In , an unusually intelligent tigbanua named Getsu tried to destroy the city of Nakamaru in Wa by turning as many of its citizens as he could into tagamalings who would slaughter the rest. He had at least commoners infected within the first 99 days and went on to attack the Worthless Flower yakuza gang before adventurers likely stopped him.
A band of tigbanua entered the Kichai District of Tu Lung in the month of Yang in  and started raiding villages. The local township officer offered a reward to those who killed them.
Tigbanua buso were found across Kara-Tur,
Buso were known to live in the Himasla Mountains in Malatra, where they fought with patrols of the Kuong Kingdom around the town of Garuji.
Circa , at least three tigbanua lived in the abandoned ruins of the castle of Ito-jo in Wa, where they scavenged for carrion in the crypts.
* Getsu, an unusually intelligent tigbanua buso in Nakamaru.
* A human wu jen cursed to be a tigbanua buso in Wa.
* Splin, the pet tigbanua buso of a group of kappas living along the River Hidden, which led from Panchengjuduohuh in Tu Lung.