in diameter
Translators were a race of couriers found all throughout the Upper Planes, related to the mediators of Mechanus.
These floating beings were shiny, silver spheres  in diameter that pulsed with an inner yellow light whenever they were carrying a message. Their bodies had no front or back end and they had no corporeal form. Due to their appearance and behavior, some mistook them for constructs.
thumb|273px|A wizard receives a message from a translator.
Translators flew at incredible speeds and had impressively maneuverability. Allowing them to deliver messages in a speedy manner, and avoid combat, and usually outdistance anything seeking to attack them.
When in the presence of creatures that spoke an unknown language, translators would magically become versed in their language within 30 seconds without even having heard it spoke first.
Translators were quiet and unassuming, yet intelligent creatures. Capable of evaluating situations and then conducting themselves in a manner that would be appropriate to the completion of their missions.
If forced to engage in combat a translator would shoot out a shining, silver beam of light at its assailant(s). This beam would stun their target, putting them in a state where they could not move or think for its duration. This beam would also wipe all memorized spells from the minds of spellcasters.
In addition, whenever a translator was attacked the deity whose message it was carrying would become alerted and send aid, typically in the form of an aasimon servant. Though in very rare instances a deity might even show up itself.
Translators were solitary creatures and had absolutely no form of society.
Translators would never intentionally alter their messages. They delivered them with the greatest accuracy that was possible, maintaining not only the words but, the spirit of a message when possible. However, sometimes they were incapable of providing a completely accurate translation for their messages due to incompatibilities between languages, particularly those of widely differing planes. In such instances a translator would inform their listeners of this.
These beings had no need for food, drink, or sleep. They sustained themselves solely on the energy of the planes.
These beings were capable of audibly speaking any language.
Translators acted as messengers for deities, but primarily those that were neutrally-aligned. Their lives entirely revolved around delivering messages for them and waiting to receive messages. They received no rewards for their services, though they were content in their servitude and the deities of the Upper Planes took special care of them.
They were particularly known to act as servants of Oghma, the Faerûnian deity of knowledge.