in diameter
| wingspan     = 
| weight       = 
| skincolor    = Gray
| haircolor    = 
| hairstyles   = 
| feathers     = 
| eyecolor     = 
| build        = 
| distinctions = Similar to a manta ray
| appearrefs   = 
| first        = 
| based        = 
| histrefs     = 
Trappers were rare creatures related to lurkers that typically could be found in underground locations.
 century DR
Tthe base form of a trapper was very flat, reminiscent of a large manta ray with a tough exterior. Their skin had a density and texture like that of stone. The average trapper had a body that covered over , though they could grow so large as to cover . Their bodies were skilled at climbing difficult surfaces, attaching itself to walls and ceilings with ease.
Trapper hatchlings resembled small, flat rocks.
When digesting, trappers ate only the flesh of their prey. Bones, metal, and anything else indigestible were left where the creature had stood.
Whenever their prey became scarce trappers would fall into a hibernation state. This state could persist for many months, though trappers were still aware of anything that approached them.
Trappers were capable of shape-shifting their bodies, altering the texture and color of their outer side. They could blend in with any surface made of earth, stone, or wood. However, they could not change their bodys texture to resemble a grassy or snow-covered surface.
Trappers most often mimicked nearby floors, forming a protrusion in their center that resembled a box or treasure chest in order to lure in prey. Though they also were known to attach themselves to and blend in with a wall or ceiling. If the remains from previous victims were present, trappers would use their bodies to cover them up. Because of this shape-shifting ability, trappers were often very difficult to detect.
Trappers were impervious to harm from severe heat or cold and spells that utilized those elements.
Whenever prey wandered into the center of their body a trapper would shift their form to rise and wrap around them, forming a ball. Crushing, smothering, and preventing the prey from breathing. While digesting their victim they remained in this ball form.
Alternatively, trappers sometimes attach themselves to walls or ceilings close to the remains of a previous victim, using them as bait.
During the 14 century DR, some trappers were known to dwell inside the depths of Undermountain. Amidst the havoc of Halasters Higharvestide in the , two trappers passed from Undermountain through the Sojourners Portal into the crypts below the Temple of Old Night.
Some believed that trappers were related to creatures known as cloakers, who they occasionally known to serve.
These creatures lived largely solitary lives. Unlike lurkers, who laid their eggs on ceiling, trappers would lay their eggs in a pebble-like mass.
Trappers were a carnivorous species. In order to remain sated they required a meal equal to or greater in size than a halfling at least once a week.
These lurkers were primarily found in caves, caverns, and locations that were very dark. Though they had a preference for underground locations above all others. Many were encountered in dungeons or along roads that were very frequented, as trappers would remain in an area for extended periods of time if food was plentiful.
Some were particularly known to be found within the mid-level caverns of Deepearth.
It was possible to fashion the skin of these creatures into a sort of +1 leather armor.