| wingspan     = 
| weight       = 
| skincolor    = 
| haircolor    = 
| hairstyles   = 
| feathers     = 
| eyecolor     = 
| build        = 
| distinctions = 
| appearrefs   = The measurements displayed in this article are based on the creatures 3-edition rendition. 1 edition gave it no size, and 2 edition reported its diameter. However, this latter case was based on the previous assumption of it being a formless mass of energy and contradicts the books claim that their aura had, "no fixed size, shape&hellip."
| first        = 
| based        = 
| histrefs     = 
Trillochs were parasitic energy beings endemic to the Negative Energy plane. Because of their dietary habits, some referred to these creatures as the "energy vultures" of this plane.
The body of a trilloch was incorporeal and naturally invisible to all creatures, which led some to believe that they had no fixed form. Casting a spell like see invisibility or detect magic would only reveal their unique aura. This appeared to the viewer as an amorphous, pulsating ripple of negative energy, lacking any fixed shape, size, or even color.
thumb|250px|A depiction of a trillochs unique energy aura.
Only powerful divination spells, such as true seeing, would reveal their bizarre true form. Those who gazed upon the creatures described their bodies as having the features of a crustacean, crinoid, and feathery fungus all rolled into one. Their true forms measured around , with membranous wings of an equal length, and they were devoid of any sort of mass.
These creatures possessed an innate immunity to most spells or spell-like abilities that granted resistance to spells, though there were some exceptions. Both the spells detect magic and deathwatch revealed their location. Death ward was known to protect other creatures from their abilities. If they were ever outside of their native plane, both holy word and banishment were known to return them to it. They were also driven away by the spell dispel magic. 
Finally, in earlier ages, those on the Prime Material plane knew no way of harming trillochs. Other creatures only knew that it was impossible to hurt them by physical means. It was later discovered that, as beings of negative energy, they were capable of being hurt by all variations of the cure wounds spell.
Trillochs had an ability to induce a compulsive state of rage in the minds of all other living creatures within  of them, similar to the bestial rage experienced by barbarians, except it did not produce any fatigue in the target, much like the spell rage. This ability could even affect non-intelligent creatures. Those who fell under this effect would be driven to attack the nearest creature, often fighting it to the death.
Trillochs were able to end this state of rage in creatures selectively, allowing all other affected victims to remain enraged. They were also able to end states of rage that were caused by any other magical or natural effect, even that of a barbarian. Creatures with strong willpower were capable of overcoming this control. Trillochs used this power to force creatures to fight to the point of death or beyond, before withdrawing the fury that sustained them, leaving them dying or dead.
Another ability of trillochs was producing an effect similar to the necromancy spell death knell, sapping away the life energy of those on the verge of death. This ability of trillochs affected all within  of them and was the manner by which trillochs obtained the life energy on which they subsisted.
The behavior of these creatures was largely a mystery to those on the Prime Material plane, but their intelligence was comparable to that of an animal. Therefore, there was no sadistic or malicious intent behind their actions.
thumb|304x304px|The unique energy aura of a trilloch, looming over two victims.
Outside of their aforementioned abilities, trillochs possessed no direct means of fighting other creatures.
These creatures originally inhabited an obscure demiplane, until one day it drifted too close to the borders of the Negative Energy plane and was assimilated into its make-up. Trillochs were quickly able to thrive within this new environment.
Trillochs were largely solitary creatures.
Trillochs were only known to feast upon the waning life energy of dying creatures. However, the life energy of microorganisms and insects was insufficient to sustain them only that of larger creatures would do.
These parasitic creatures often made larger, more powerful creatures their hosts, as they were the most likely to be efficient at dealing death and thus provide them with large amounts of life-force off of which to feed. When their host was killed, trillochs would attach themselves to the creatures killer and make it their new host until driven off or until a more powerful creature killed it.
Because of their dietary habits, many creatures viewed them as evil, rather than their true alignment of neutrality or chaotic neutrality.
Like many creatures that inhabited the Negative Energy plane, trillochs were known to serve the Death deity Jergal.