Tun mi lung, (), also known as typhoon dragons, were dragons that were found in the oceans of Kara-Tur.
The largest of the lung dragons, tun mi lungs were physically distinguished by their enormous size, up to  in length. They had thick scales in various colors. Blue-green, dark red and violet were the most common scale color. They had small dark eyes and a whispy beard under their massive jaws, which were lined with razor-sharp teeth.  
Tun mi lung were antagonistic, malicious and wild. They were disliked by many creatures and other dragons. They did not respect the territory of other dragons. Lung wang and tun mi lung did not get along whatsoever.
A tun mi lung always attacked using divine wind and lightning bolt spells. When forced into melee combat, they casted darkness before launching an attack with claws and fangs. They had a weak kicking ability but could attack with their tail.
thumb|A fierce tun mi lung dragon coiling through storming skies.
The dragon was immune to all water or air-based attacks. A tun mi lung was capable of casting a very powerful divine wind spell once per week. This spell inflicted significant damage to ships and buildings, with winds strong enough to lift a humanoid-sized creature off their feet. 
A tun mi lung had several innate magical abilities, each gained as they grew older. Three times per day a mature tun mi lung could use lightning bolt, that summoned a lightning bolt  long. power word, stun, and repulsion.
The dragon lived solitary lives. Mates did not live together and female tun mi lung abandoned their offspring after they hatch. This has caused a high rate of infant mortality among tun mi lung, which contributed to the rarity of this dragon.
A tun mi lung had no wings, but was able to fly due to a magical black pearl embedded in their brains. At birth they could immediately breathe both water and air. Tun mi lung lairs were elaborate palaces found in isolated parts of the ocean floor. The dragon spent most of its time roaming the coasts or flying around in the skies above the oceans. Tun mi lung will eat nearly anything, from minerals and gems to animals and ships.
Within the Celestial Bureaucracy, tun mi lung were tasked with unleashing ocean storms, typhoons and hurricanes. They were only supposed to do so when ordered by the Celestial Bureaucracy, but often a tun mi lung would ignore their directive and create destructive storms out of malice. When this happened, the Celestial Bureaucracy would send a tien lung to end the storm and chastise the tun mu ling.