Tyrantfog zombies were the risen corpses of priests of Cyric who died in the final phase of the Tyrantfog sent by the god Iyachtu Xvim in the .
These shambling, rotting corpses had a dark fog leaking from their nostils and mouths. Their eyes, nails, and any exposed bone glowed with a dim, emerald-green light, a tell-tale sign of Xvims power. 
Smarter than the average zombie, Tyrantfog zombies were capable of basic and rudimentary cunning, although they were nevertheless aggressive and relentless.
Tyrantfog zombies showed no inclination toward self-preservation in combat, even as they employed primitive tactics. They attacked with their sharp fingernails, and an injury from them could spread the crippling disease that killed the individual during the nine days of the Tyrantfog. Inhaling the fog that seeped out of their lungs could likewise sap the endurance from anyone too close.
As undead creatures, they were immune to any poisons or diseases and were not affected by mind-affecting, paralyzing, or life-draining spells.
As undead risen by the divine power of Iyachtu Xvim, his Xvimlar clerics could more easily turn, command, or rebuke these zombies. However, they did not otherwise show any respect or deference to the faithful of Xvim. 
They could be found anywhere that the Tyrantfog had struck, which included all across the Heartlands, the western Inner Sea as far east as Tsurlagol, the Moonsea, and the Moonsea North as far as the Sunrise Mountains, as well in southwest Faerûn between Mintar and Saradush.
Between Mirtul 3 and Mirtul 11 of 1370 DR, a ritual enacted at Zhentil Keep by Fzoul Chembryl cased two great clouds of fog&mdashknown as the Tyrantfog&mdashto spread across the Heartlands, casuing a debilitating disease in any Cyricist caught inside. Those who succumed to this disease subsequently rose as Tyrantfog zombies. Those who survived were incinerated on the final day of the ritual when the fog ingnited in bright green Tyrantfire.
In the years following the Tyrantfog, these risen corpses still haunted the regions where they had died.