Uvuudaums were malevolent creatures from an alien plane.
Uvuudaum had a torso, with two largely normal humanoid arms where expected on it, but their bizarre lower body consisted of six arms that splayed around in a rather spider-like fashion. They were known to wear loose clothing over the lower body. Most horrifying, however, was the tail-like appendage that a uvuudaum had in place of a head, on the end of which was an iron-hard spike.
These were strange and malevolent creatures. They took delight in revealing the existence of their horrifying, madness-inducing homeplace to more structured realities.
Lacking eyes, uvuudaums instead could somehow detect the locations of creatures through some strange sense. Lacking a mouth, they could somehow telepathically communicate with any language-using creature within  of them.
Uvuudaums instilled madness and confusion in anyone within some  of them. Additionally, when an uvuudaum actually attacked someone with its head-spike, they drained away some vital sense and stability of the mind, and healed themself in the draining.
Uvuudaum were highly resistant to being damaged by electricity, and healed quite fast from most injuries except those caused by fire, severe cold, or holy weapons.
Additionally, uvuudaums were spellcasters, or at least able to naturally (if such a word could be applied to them) replicate the effects of many different spells, including confusion, dimension door, greater dispelling, displacement, haste, invisibility, lightning bolt, magic missile, mage armor, polymorph self, shield, stoneskin, true strike, and web all at will chain lightning, cone of cold, disintegrate, dominate person, plane shift, prismatic spray, scrying, teleport without error, and wall of force thrice per day each and contingent resurrection, nailed to the sky, time duplicate, and time stop once per day each.
left|
Uvuudaums were madness-inducing just by existing, but any enemy who managed to hold off insanity long enough to fight them found their many spell-like talents and head-spike an even worse danger. If they had the opportunity to prepare for combat, uvuuduams typically made sure to utilize their haste, displacement, and stoneskin talents.
Uvuudaums came from a distant realm that was so frighteningly remote it was considered beyond the planes, a space where the rules of normal dimensions meant nothing. The uvuudaum were participant and part of the madness there, where all the native creatures were alien and inchoate, and unspeakable entities whispered awful things to those who listened. Some said that uvuudaums were lords in that far realm.
Uvuudaums were sometimes encountered in groups of up to six individuals such a gathering was called a madness.
In , the Purple Claws mercenary company accidentally entered the lair of an uvuudaum during an expedition to Throrgar in the Underdark. Every member of the company was killed by the uvuudaums mooncalf minions.