A veserab was a large, worm- or lamprey-like creature with bat wings and a large maw lined with teeth.
Veserabs were  long tubular quadrupeds, with spindly legs and massive wings, typically with a wingspan of some . They had no eyes, only a large mouth and two fan-like ears, and because of that were often said to have no face. Veserabs had midnight-blue skin.
Despite their fearsome teeth and talons, veserabs were actually herd creatures who were normally docile, though they became skittish when they sensed an unknown or a potential threat, or aggressive when they detected prey. They only became vicious when fighting to protect their mates and young.
Veserabs were completely blind, dwelling as they did in the umbral skies of the Plane of Shadow, and instead navigated primarily by way of a form of blindsight known as echolocation, and secondarily by scent.
Veserabs were capable of spewing a cloud of black, noxious gas out of their mouth in a  cone, the fumes of which both blinded and nauseated creatures caught within it.
Veserabs relied on both their teeth and talons in combat. They preferred to attack enemies by incapacitating them with their noxious breath, then flyby attacking from above. When attacking in groups, they would alternate the use of their breath weapons to keep their opponents staggered.
As trained mounts, veserabs were under the complete control of their rider.
Veserabs were predatory animals native to the Plane of Shadow. They would attack anything they thought they could kill and eat, but they mainly preyed upon small birds and the like. They were often said to not so much fly and swim through the air, and would swim in water to cool and clean themselves. Veserabs naturally gathered in herds of between 2 and 20 individuals, although typically with three cows and one calf for each bull. Cows tended to be larger than the bulls, and the largest cow generally led the herd.
Veserabs communicated with each other with high-pitched screeches and whistles.
The shadovar used veserabs as mounts, finding them relatively easily to train and very loyal to their riders. They were typically trained by the shadovar to fly in tight military formations at high altitudes, so as to avoid surprise attacks from the ground. Specially-made saddles were required to ride veserabs, and shadovar handlers often put copper bands on their mounts.
In the markets of Thultanthar, veserab calves sold for 12,000 gp and matured a little slower than horses. Professional trainers typically charged 4,000 gp to raise of train a veserab. Veserabs were absolutely loyal to their riders once the two had trained together, to the point that a veserab would attack anyone else who tried to ride it. Veserabs could easily carry  of weight, up to  with some effort, and up to  with greater effort.
Skilled and knowledgeable spellcasters could summon a veserab with the summon monster IV spell or more powerful versions.