and a half to . Therefore, it is more accurate to say that these creatures range in size from "Small" to "Huge".
Viperfish were an uncommon predatory species of deep sea fish
Viperfish varied considerably in size. At their smallest they measured around  and a half, with the largest natural size being around . Some more monstrous specimens of this species were found to grow as large as  in length.
One of the most distinguishing features was the long, fang-like teeth that filled their large mouths. These teeth were designed so as to fold into their mouths with ease whenever a viperfish needed to close it, acting as bars to prison prey trapped and to prevent a viperfish from losing their grasp on any prey that turned out to be larger than they could reasonably handle.
These creatures were also distinguished by the bio-luminescence emitted by circular spots along dual rows on either side of their bodies, as well as by patches within their mouths. And the whip-like growths that protruded from the area of their head analogous to a chin. A select view viperfish were noted as having special whip-like growths that functioned similarly to tentacles, allowing them to constrict their prey.
These fish sensed where they were going both by sight, aided by their bio-luminescence, and from their whip-like growths. These growths acted sort of like antennae, extensions of their lateral senses that could detect nearby movement within the ocean.
thumb|The fish.
Viperfish were active hunters that preyed upon other unsuspecting creatures of the deep sea, luring them in with their bio-luminescence. They typically resorted to swallowing their prey whole. Attacking them to free captured prey was ill-advised, as doing so was more than likely to injure the prey as well.
Over the years many attempts were made to study these peculiar fish alive, but these attempts mostly wound up fruitless as specimens tended to die less than half a bell after being captured. This continued to be the case as late as the 15 century DR.
Viperfish typically lived solitary lives, only meeting with others of their kind briefly during mating season. Any eggs produced from pairings of viperfish were usually abandoned soon after being laid.
These creatures were a carnivorous species that sometimes tried to prey upon creatures larger than themselves.
The flesh of a viperfish was edible, though it was not particularly pleasant.