in diameter
| wingspan     = 
| weight       = 
| skincolor    = 
| haircolor    = 
| hairstyles   = 
| feathers     = 
| eyecolor     = 
| build        = 
| distinctions = 
| appearrefs   = 
| first        = 
| based        = 
| histrefs     = 
Volts were a strange, uncommon species of electrical blood-sucking creatures.
Volts had flat, nearly-spherical bodies  in diameter that were covered in a bundle of bristly grey hair. Their bodies were surrounded by a faint, blue electrical aura that was only visible in low-light conditions. In addition, a low humming sound was given off by their bodies that could only be heard in the quietest of conditions. 
At the rear of a volts body was a long, naked tail that spanned  in length. This tail helped to provide their bodies balance while floating and they moved by rapidly twitching it, similar to the way in which snakes swam. At the very end of these tails were barbed stingers and their electricity producing organ.
They had two bulbous eyes as well as two small curved horns, the latter of which were above their mouths. These mouths resembled that of an eel, sucker-like and full of tiny teeth.
Volts had an animal degree of intellect and were very ill-tempered creatures, liable to attack anything they encountered. However, they ignored creatures that had little to no nerve impulses, such as plants and golems.
Volts were drawn towards sources of lightning like thunderstorms, even those caused by spells like lightning bolt, and tended to be more aggressive around such sources.
Volts were capable of detecting electrical impulses, such as nerve activity.
Once per year, in areas of violent thunderstorm activity a volt would reproduce by means of sudden bright discharges of electrical energy. Newlyborn volts, sometimes known as microvolts, could only achieve maturity if they were struck by lightning. If not struck within six hours after birth a newlyborn volts body would wither away and die.
Volts floated by a magical means, in a similar manner to the spell levitation. They were also impervious to harm from electricity. In fact, electricity could heal their bodies.
These creatures fought by biting at their opponents and locking onto their necks with their jaws. Once locked on to an opponent this way, suction tendrils snaked out from their mouths and drained blood from their victim. Once suctioned to a victim it was difficult to remove them without either killing them or the bolt. Besides their jaws, volts would lash out with their tails.
One room within the Assassins Run complex of the Assassins Guild of the Galenas was infested with volts.
Some sages speculated that the electrical aura which surrounded them helped to initiate thunderstorms.
Volts traveled in herds, led by an individual that had drained the blood of other competing members of their herd. These herds were nomadic, following weather fronts which showed a promise of thunderstorm activity, rather than staying in or defending one locale.
These creatures fed upon electrical impulses and blood. They extracted substances from blood, primarily salt, which served to charge their electrical organ.
Volts could be found in wide variety of lands, but typically those with a temperate or tropical climate. They were most often found in or around areas of where thunderstorm activity was at its peak.
Outside of the Prime Material plane, they could be found inhabiting the jungles of the 500 layer, the realm of Kali.
If properly harvested, the electrical organ within their tail could be used in the creation of a wand of lightning.