Werecrocodiles, also known as Sebek-spawn, were lycanthropes whose animal form was that of a massive crocodile.
In their humanoid forms, werecrocodiles were biologically indistinguishable from non-lycanthropes. A werecrocodiles humanoid face was thin, with sharp features, a long nose and chin, a noticeable overbite, and eyes that held a steady stare which could be somewhat unnerving.
In crocodilian form, they had red eyesIn Advanced Dungeons & Dragons and in the 3rd edition sourcebook Monsters of Faerun, werecrocodiles only possessed human and crocodile forms they did not gain a hybrid form until the 3.5 edition sourcebook Lost Empires of Faerûn. In this form, they were hulking,  tall crocodiles that stood upright on short legs.
In human form, werecrocodiles were considerably strong and preferred to grab single opponents in their jaws and hold them underwater. In hybrid form, they relied much more on their tails, preferring to bite only when moving in to grapple with an enemy.
Werecrocodiles liked to ambush their prey, either by getting close in their humanoid form or by lying in wait submerged under water. A favorite maneuver was to get close to a target while in humanoid form, use their great strength to grab them and drag them into the water, and then change form to hold and drown the victim. They could not breathe underwater, but could hold their breath for considerably longer than most normal humanoids.
Some werecrocodiles were also able to recruit or summon a small number of mundane crocodiles which would obediently aid them in battle.
Werecrocodiles could regenerate and heal from injuries, although this process was disrupted if they were hit by a weapon made of silver.
Werecrocodiles lived near water, and were expert swimmers and highly adept at using the water for cover and stealth. swamps, or flooded plains, the Great Swamp of Rethild, the Lake of Salt, and the River of Swords. While they generally avoided areas with large humanoid populations, or Soorenar.
Like true crocodiles, werecrocodiles consumed anything that they could catch, including mostly fish and mammals who lived near their homes. and their two favorite foods were the flesh of humans and the flesh of wererats. They had a particular taste for human flesh, and found its allure difficult to resist. They had no natural predators.
Werecrocodiles were known to be carriers of lockjaw, and could spread the disease to anyone they bit in their crocodile or hybrid forms. They themselves were immune to it.
As a rule, werecrocodiles only mated amongst each other, and birthed live young lycanthropes. Alternatively, anyone bitten by a werecrocodile ran the risk of contracting their form of lycanthropy and transforming into a werecrocodile at the next full moon. The more grievous the bite, the more likely the victim was to contract the condition.
While they were known in rare cases to gather in large settlements, They would spend most of their day hunting in crocodile form, then return home and assume human form to sleep during the night.
Werecrocodiles had no particular enmity for humans, they simply found their flesh too tasty to resist, and were also very territorial. At the same time, they were aware that humans had the greatest potential to harm them, and they consequently tempered their hunting and territoriality with caution. Werecrocodiles avoided conflict with large groups of humans, instead picking off lone individuals or small bands that they felt confident of overpowering. They would often lure their victims into traps or disguise themselves as humans in states of intense feigned grief in order to get the advantage in their ambush.
They could be very direct and concise when they spoke, occasionally snapping their jaws and speaking with hisses or bestial tones when emotional. They generally knew Common and traditionally also spoke the Mulhorandi language. Out in the swamplands, they sometimes relied on short, shrill vocalizations to call out to one another. Werecrocodiles could also communicate with mundane crocodiles and giant crocodiles.
Their patron god was Sebek, the crocodile-headed minor Mulhorandi deity, Their religion demanded that they ruthlessly protect their territory and impose themselves on those weaker than them, all the while devoting their glories to Sebek.
Some werecrocodiles served Sebek as clerics, Werecrocodile priests were known to bully other werecrocodiles, and were at the forefront of most schemes against humans.
Werecrocodiles originated in the land of Mulhorand, where they were created as servitors by Sebek and served in that role for an unknown period of time.&mdashto destroy the city in the . The paladins were said to have slaughtered even the youngling werecrocodiles, and as a result, the survivors fled there were more werecrocodiles in Chessenta than in Mulhorand by the mid-to-late 14 century DR. By this time, they had established the City of the Werecrocodiles deep within the Adder Swamp, making use of their gods power and several potent magic items which had been brought with them from Mulhorand. From this city, they nominally claimed dominion over the whole Bay of Chessenta.
In the , a family of werecrocodiles took up residence in the sewers of Soorenar and preyed on poor tradesfolk and peasants, trusting that the citys ruling nobility would not even notice the disappearances.
As of the late 15 century DR, the werecrocodiles in Chessentas Adder Swamp had established Sebakar, a nation over which they ruled like nobles.