Werebats were bat-like lycanthropes that required blood in order to survive. Most werebats came from goblin or drow stock, but they could be from other races.
A werebats humanoid form was typically pug-nosed and sharp-toothed, They could also transform into a giant bat.
The most fearsome form of a werebat was their hybrid form, retaining a humanoid figure but with their arms extended into leathery wings, snouts pushed out from their face, and eyes that glowed when hit by light. Their teeth sharpened into fangs and their nails lengthened into pointed claws.
thumb|A depiction of a werebat from Spellfire Master the Magic.
Werebats in normal form were normally elusive and quiet,
While just as intelligent as before, reports varied on whether their moral alignment was altered by the transformation. In some cases it was said that they were twisted into beings of evil, while in others they retained their same moral and ethical lens. Most werebats preyed on humans, but even then the attacks were not malicious in nature. They merely viewed humans as lower on the food chain. 
Not all werebats possessed the ability to change between all three forms, with some being restricted to becoming either a bat or a hybrid. and could easily scale vertical surfaces.
The act of biting temporarily revitalized the werebat with the consumption of blood, as their fangs were long and hollow and so able to drain the ichor from their prey. The saliva of their fangs was also known to cause weakness similar to a ray of enfeeblement for several minutes. Those bitten by a werebat might become werebats themselves, with the chances increasing the more they were bitten, 
Regardless of if they were underground, werebats still transformed at night like normal lycanthropes. Some reports claimed that, like other lycanthropes, they could not be harmed by weapons that were not magical or silver, with the damage done being instantly reverted.
thumb|250px|right|Sina and Mesrak, an ettin werebat
When werebats fought, they were usually driven by bloodlust, and had set out to hunt alone in hybrid-form. They were nonetheless fully aware of what they were doing, and not acting as mindless beasts. They shunned combat in their humanoid forms and routinely took advantage of their ability to fly when in battle.
Werebats lived in familial groups consisting of two parents and up to four children. They were most commonly found in the Underdark and many were drow. Goblin werebats were shunned by other goblinoids because of their need for blood.
Even in their humanoid forms, werebats possessed oddly keen hearing and poor eyesight in the sun.
Like all lycanthropes, there were "true" members of the race and the infected, with the former being born as werebats who couldnt be cured, and the latter having been infected with the werebat curse. Infected were far more dexterous than they were as their original race. Werebats born from a union between werebats and other races normally resulted in a normal racial variant, but could also create a curable child or a true werebat. Young werebats stayed in true bat form until the age of three before maturing into adults within the next year fully grown. They became extremely ravenous during this time and could devour numerous villagers before being sated.
For every night spent without drinking at least a pint of blood, a werebat would grow increasingly tired, dying in just short of a week if starved of blood. Depending on how long they were starved, more blood was needed to recover with 6 pints needed to recover from the brink of death. Although they could subsist on cattle and other animals without passing on the curse, they preferred that of humanoids.
Werebats also possessed a natural affinity with regular bats. In cases, dozens to hundreds of normal bats and up to ten giant bats were present in their lairs, all at the command of the adults.
In 1368 DR, a nobleman from Faerûn named Doljust displeased the goddess of ill-luck - Beshaba. The spiteful deity used her divine magics to affect the mans luck. Beshaba watched Doljust as he faced off against a werebat. The creatures cave has two dead toddlers in front of it, which was a grim omen of things to come. The goddess swayed the nobles hound, forcing the beast to pounce at the lycanthrope as Doljust swung his sword. As the man mourned his beloved dying dog, Beshabas plan became apparent. Doljust swung his blade at a sound that came from behind. A moment later, another, smaller werebat, cleaved by Doljusts sword, shifted back to its humanoid form. The adolescent werebeast was a young child who whispered "grandfather" as he died in his older relatives arms.
* Thelossa, a wandering drow druid
* Heskret, a male werebat from the High Forest
* Sina and Mesrak, an ettin werebat.
Adventures
Waterdeep Dungeon of the Mad Mage
Novels
Tymoras Luck &bull Son of Thunder &bull The Black Bouquet
Card Games
AD&D Trading Cards &bull Spellfire Master the Magic
CategoryLycanthropes
CategoryCreature templates
CategoryDeep bats
7gzz2wgtb8j0o51ie4kt9c22gnv4aiz