Darkvision 
Wheeps were miserable, poisonous and eyeless undead creatures, stuck in unending torture of pain, often serving as guards or minions of more powerful undead beings.
Wheeps were horrifying in appearance, reminiscent of victims of unimaginable tortures. They had empty sockets that leaked foul thick black ichor that left slithering marks all over their faces and bodies and covered their clawed hands and feet. These creatures constantly wailed and moaned in pain while gargling on the ichor that flowed into their mouths.
Wheeps generally were of an average size for a humanoid, , weighting around . They possessed unnatural strength, empowered by their unending pain and sorrow.
Said vile black bile that dripped out of their empty orbs was a potent poison that usually decomposed and evaporated within an hour after being secreted. When introduces into the victims bloodstream, this poison spread through the body, slowly killing the target however, the poisons effects dissipated after an hour in the victims body.
Wheeps always cried, wailed, and sniffled quite loudly and, unless they tried to remain undetected, could be heard from afar. They were easy to track due to the constantly exuding black poison that splattered the ground where these creatures passed.
Wheeps could communicate in Common.
Even though these creatures often announced their presence with bone-chilling gargling wail, their main weapons were poisoned claws and bites. However, these horrific cries could almost certainly unnerve the creatures opponents, leading them shaken. When in combat, wheeps moved with an unholy grace, making them hard to hit or pin down.
As undead creatures, wheeps held no place in the natural world. They were often used by more powerful undead as bodyguards, servants and sent out on tasks of desecrating heavily-guarded cemeteries, stealing corpses of respected, powerful, and beloved individuals.
In the late 14 century DR, wheeps were inhabiting the Crypt of Augathra the Mad in the desert of Anauroch, serving a dreaded death tyrant who laired there.