Wilden were a race of humanoids from the Feywild that emerged into the Prime Material plane in the years that followed the Spellplague.
Wilden were fey creatures who resembled plant-like humanoids. Their bodies were covered in bark. Their bones were hardwood, and their hair were vines and tendrils of vegetation. Each wilden housed a nature spirit within, and their appearance was dictated by that spirit, transforming them to reflect their purpose.
Wildens pretense on the Prime Material plane was due to their desire to defend the worlds and fight against the corrupting influence of the Far Realm that became pronounced after the Spellplague ravaged the land. Wilden, who existed in the seclusion of wild forests and took upon animalistic behaviors, were known for being extremely xenophobic, territorial, and covetous. These misguided wilden often allied with such creatures as fomorians.
thumb|A stealthy winden hunter sniper.|563x563px
Wilden warriors sometimes were referred to as wilder destroyers. They wilded handaxes and special greatclubs, uniquely carved in designs and patterns of their tribes that told the story of past triumphs. After each clash, they meditated and expanded the carvings to commemorate the battle. Wilder destroyers always targeted the strongest opponents and rushed to enter a melee. When they faced a group, the warriors evenly split the opponents amongst each other.
Wilden folk who preferred stealth and cover of the forest were referred to as hunters. They were masters of camouflage and could stalk their prey for days remaining undetected. They were excellent snipers and wielded longbows. Wilden hunters used ambushes and cunning traps to dispatch their foes.
The most powerful among them were wilden ancients, who wielded martial weapons and natures magics. Most were equipped with spears and used totems to focus their sorcery. The ancients could summon spectral vines to damage their opponents from afar, summon rumbling earth to cause damage to a group of enemies, and they called on lightning storms. Wilden ancients were rarely alone. When in battle, they always were accompanied by grizzled wilden destroyer bodyguards.
Being new inhabitants of the Prime, wilden were still determining their role in the larger picture of the Realms. Some found themselves gravitating towards elven, eladrin, or gnomish communities, while others shaped their behavior after wild beasts of the forest. Those who embraced feral life were a great danger to adventurers and unwary travelers.
Wilden folk lived in tribal communities, with their ancients holding the positions of leadership. They, as a species, knew little of how to build civilization and oftentimes were a danger to outsiders. As such, wilden were easy to manipulate. Their unfamiliarity with the Prime and naivety could lead them to be misled or used by more cunning individuals, especially those who tried to influence wilden towards evil and malice.
The ancients held sway over the communities they led. They alone could fix the direction in which the community was moving and undo, or see through, manipulations, given a chance. They respected power and required tests of skill and strength. Some such tests could be as significant as killing a nearby green dragon. Those who passed the ancients tests gained the respect and friendship of the wilden tribe.
Wilden first appeared on Toril in the 15 century DR, in the hundred years that followed the calamitous Spellpague that temporarily reshaped the world. They could be found in the old nation of Chessenta, inhabiting the Sky Riders hills in its frontier. Wilden of the Sky Riders were nomadic tribes that rode a species of flying predatory creatures called tuuru, imitating the elite aerial warriors of the nation of Unther from ages past.