in diameter
Will odeeps were creatures loosely related to will-o-wisps, unique to the Domains of Dread. Out of all the will-o-wisp related creatures that existed within that series of demiplanes, they were considered to be the weakest.
Will odeeps were tiny, flickering energy beings that were roughly  in diameter. They could alter their form and take on a variety of colors. However, they were typically seen as golden or reddish in hue, with a teardrop shape reminiscent of a small torchs flame.
Will odeeps highly valued self-preservation, leading them to flee from danger if badly injured or leading their pursuers to treasure in hopes of distracting them.
These creatures could be harmed by normal, unenchanted weaponry, though they were impervious to harm from nearly all known spells. The sole exception to this were the spells lightning bolt and chain lightning.
Will odeeps did not attack their prey directly. Rather they preferred to lure prey into complex labyrinths or the lairs of dangerous creatures, gradually wearing them down. Eventually leading them into an area where they could trigger a trap or cave-in, thus trapping their victim underground for long-term feeding.
They could physically attack others by firing off small, white-hot sparks. These did not cause much harm to creatures, but will odeeps would often used them to trigger explosions and cave-ins within small pockets of underground gas.
Will odeeps were often encountered alone, though they preferred to travel in small clans of two to four individuals.
Much like a will-o-wisp, the will odeep fed upon the emotional energies of fear and panic that were generated within the brains of humanoids. However, they seemed to be incapable of feeding upon the emotional energies of apathy and despair.
Within the Domains of Dread, these creatures were only known to be found within the most remote caverns and tunnels. They almost never appeared above the surface.
Will odeeps communicated by changing their colors and intensity. It was theorized to be possible for other to learn their language, but there were no known cases of this. Though some reports claimed that there were drow and similar underground dwellers who had learned how.
Will odeeps kept their entrapped victims alive by luring small animals, such as rats, to them for sustenance. Once feelings of apathy and despair set into their victims, will-odeeps would either abandon them or turn them over to underground dwellers such as drow. In return they would typically receive gold, gems, or fresh victims.
They were sometimes known to act as servants of the Faerûnian deities Ibrandul and Urdlen.