| wingspan     = 
| weight       = 
| skincolor    = Varied
| haircolor    = 
| hairstyles   = 
| feathers     = 
| eyecolor     = 
| build        = 
| distinctions = 
| appearrefs   = 
| based        = 
| first        = 
Winged serpents, also called “spark snakes,” were reptiles that lived in the jungles and forests of Zakhara. 
Winged serpents were born with dark green coloration, helping them to blend in with their surroundings. As they matured their bodies developed into a variety of colors that included sky blue, emerald, and raspberry red. On average they grew to be around  in length.
They had a pair of gossamer wings that moved so quickly that they were invisible unless stationary. Their young were wingless, with fully functioning ones wings taking three months to develop.
Young winged serpents possessed an ability similar to the spell spider climb, allowing them to easily climb trees and make up for their lack of wings.
Winged serpents were graceful and quick. Surprising one was very difficult. 
A bite from a winged serpent injected corrosive venom that burned the victim for several minutes.
A winged serpent’s most dangerous attack was a special lightning-based breath weapon. If threatened, these snakes could discharge a shower of sparks that could cause clothing to burst into flame. These creatures were immune to electricity.
Fire was especially damaging to their delicate wings. A winged serpent that lost their wings could not use their electrical breath weapon until they grew back.
Winged serpents were vital for jungle ecology. They helped with plant fertilization by transporting pollen between fruit trees. Seeds from their diet were spread throughout their habitat.
These creatures spent almost as much time mating as they did eating.
Winged serpents had an extremely high metabolism and needed to eat constantly to survive. Tropical fruit was their food of choice. A piece of fruit was injected with corrosive venom so it could be sucked out through special incisions in the snake’s fangs. Most winged serpents ate ten times their body weight in fruit each day.
These creatures did not keep a permanent lair nor did they hoard treasure.
Beyond the Zakharan mainland, winged serpents could be found in the Crowded Sea on the archipelago Jazayir al-Sartan and the island chain Djinnis Claws.
Beyond the land of Zakhara, winged serpents could be found in some areas of the Domains of Dread.
These creatures made excellent pets if captured as juveniles before their wings developed. While in captivity, winged serpents needed to consume an average of one hundred gold pieces worth of fruit each month to flourish. These creatures were able to learn tricks just like other trained animals.
Wings from these reptiles could be used to inscribe scrolls of protection from lightning if powdered and mixed with ink.