Xag-ya () were a type of energon native to the Positive Energy plane. They were suffused with positive energy, and were the warm and bright counterparts of the comparatively cool and dark xeg-yi.
Xag-ya were sometimes said to be the closest thing to an "elemental" of Positive Energy. They were intelligent and incorporeal concentrations of fiery, silver energy that took the form of faintly glowing, translucent spheres approximately  in diameter. They had six to twelve tentacles radiating from this sphere, and atop the sphere were two narrow, golden glowing spots that looked like eyes. The glow of a xag-ya radiated warmth and heat, and their mere touch could ignite combustible materials such as cloth, paper, and wood.
Xag-ya were largely docile&mdashalthough by no means good-natured or helpful&mdashand highly intelligent, having unknowable and alien minds. They did not speak or otherwise appear to be able to communicate among themselves or with others, however they would take notice of other creatures and often appeared to observe them. They were known to explore the planes far and wide beyond their home plane, and seemed to be especially drawn to the phenomenon of birth. As incorporeal creatures, they did not heed any physical barriers.
If befriended, a xag-ya would use it mastery over positive energy to heal its allies. They were mysteriously attracted to any xeg-yi which they encountered, however a collision between a xag-ya and a xeg-yi caused a destructive explosion in which both were annihilated.
A xag-yas tentacles could deliver powerful jolts of positive energy, and they could use this both to heal and to harm. They could also suffuse the area around themselves in a  radius to turn undead. They were also capable of firing short-range bolts of energy that could superheat metal objects instantly to white-hot temperatures, although they could not launch such attacks repeatedly.
If slain, a xag-ya exploded in a burst of positive energy that was  wide. They could only be injured by other incorporeal creatures or by magical weapons, and were known to be immune to a wide range of spells the only spells that could reliably be used to injure them included those which struck with magical cold as well as magic missile and disintegrate. Their attacks could be defended against using shield and circle of protection, or with a rod of absorption or wand of negation. Additionally, they could be sent back to the Positive Energy Plane using abjure, banishment, dismissal, dispel magic, unholy word, plane shift, and/or wish (or limited wish).
Xag-ya could be encountered all across the Positive Energy Plane, even in the furthest depths where no other creatures were able to persist with their individuality intact. They could also be found traversing the Ethereal plane, the Plane of Shadow, and the Quasi-Elemental Plane of Lightning. While they were almost always encountered alone, clusters of up to eight individuals had been observed. 
Although they were rarely hostile, xag-ya were generally seen as threats by other creatures owing to the fact that the energies comprising their bodies were inherently dangerous.
Xag-ya were understood to feed on many different types of energy.
As of the mid-to-late 14 century DR, xag-ya could be encountered in the ruins of Myth Drannor.
During the events of the death curse in the late 15 century DR, the warlock Rokh Manti constructed a device in the shape of a xag-ya in which he could safely navigate the Positive Energy Plane. Perhaps ironically, the vehicle was ultimately destroyed by a group of xag-ya after Rokh Manti triggered a negative energy pulse to ward off a particularly curious one of their number that had gotten too close to his craft.