Xeg-yi () were a type of energon native to the Negative Energy plane. They were suffused with negative energy and were the dark and cold counterparts of the comparatively warm and bright xag-ya.
Xeg-yi were sometimes said to be the closest thing to an "elemental" of Negative Energy. They were intelligent and incorporeal concentrations of black, dull energy that took the form of faintly glowing, translucent spheres approximately  in diameter. They had six to twelve tentacles radiating from this sphere, and atop the sphere were two narrow spots that looked like metallic eyes. The aura of a xeg-yi was cold and corrosive, and their mere touch could cause cell death or rot in materials such as cloth, paper, and wood.
Xeg-yi were highly intelligent, having unknowable and alien minds. They did not speak or otherwise appear to be able to communicate&mdasheither among themselves or with others&mdashhowever they would take notice of other creatures and often appeared to observe them. While often docile, they were sometimes observed to attack anything that they encountered in the Negative Energy Plane (although this was attributed to a form of curiosity rather than malice). They were known to explore the planes far and wide beyond their home plane&mdashoften alone&mdashand seemed to be especially drawn to the phenomenon of death. As incorporeal creatures, they did not heed any physical barriers.
If befriended, a xeg-yi would fight to protect its allies. which could possibly create problems for spellcasters seeking to bind and use xeg-yi as guardians as well.
A xeg-yis tentacles could deliver powerful jolts of negative energy that would rot and drain the life from anything they touched. While predominately a harmful and fearful power, they were known to use it to heal and empower undead allies. They could also suffuse the area around themselves in a  radius to rebuke undead as needed, although undead generally just ignored them. Furthermore, xeg-yi were capable of firing short-range bolts of negative energy that could corrode materials like metal and stone, although they could not launch such attacks repeatedly.
If slain, a xeg-yi exploded in a burst of negative energy that was  wide. They could only be injured by other incorporeal creatures or by magical weapons, and were known to be immune to a wide range of spells the only spells that could reliably be used to injure them included those which struck with magical fire as well as magic missile and disintegrate. Their attacks could be defended against using shield and circle of protection, or with a mace of disruption or rod of cancellation. Additionally, they could be sent back to the Negative Energy Plane using abjure, banishment, dismissal, dispel magic, holy word, plane shift, and/or wish (or limited wish).
Xeg-yi were perhaps the most common and well-known denizens of the Negative Energy Plane, and were immune to its oppressive life-draining and anti-life effects. Powerful spellcasters visiting the plane were sometimes known to recruit them as guides. and the Plane of Shadow.
Even when they themselves were not hostile, xeg-yi were generally seen as threats by other creatures, owing to the fact that the energies comprising their bodies were inherently dangerous, Powerful incantatrixes were known to develop an immunity to the type of negative energies released by a xeg-yi.
Xeg-yi were understood to feed on many different types of energy.
Jergal counted xeg-yi among his servants, most notably while he was a greater power during the time of ancient Netheril. He became less interested in them (along with other forms of life draining creatures) following the apotheosis of Kelemvor in the mid-to-late 14 century DR.
As of the mid-to-late 14 century DR, xeg-yi could be encountered in the ruins of Myth Drannor and the Halls of the Beast-Tamers.