Yuan-ti broodguards were humans who had been transformed into reptilian humanoid slaves. They were called histachii in the yuan-ti language, which translated to "egg-watchers".
Broodguards were emaciated and had no skin or hair. Instead, they were covered in tough scales that gave off a faint odor of rotting flesh. Their eyes were bloodshot and small. They had a forked tongue, which constantly flicked in and out of their mouths, which were filled with dull, yellowed, hooked teeth. They had thin fingers that ended in sharp black claws.
Broodguards despised all non-reptilian creatures. Barely sentient, they had little intelligence.
Broodguards instantly attacked any humanoid or non-reptilian creature. They were fierce fighters, but their tactics were simple, including charging at their target and attacking with their claws and fangs. They would fight to the death to defend their yuan-ti masters or the eggs they were assigned to tend. In combat, broodguards never used armor or weapons. Once per day, a broodguard was able to go into a berserk state, increasing its strength in battle.
While broodguards lacked the natural magical resistance other yuan-ti possessed, they were immune to all charm and hold spells. Broodguards were not able to cast spells.
thumb|right|250px|A tainted one being defended by a broodguard.
Broodguards were among the lowest castes in yuan-ti society. Mere slaves, they were totally submissive to their yuan-ti masters, obeying every command without hesitation. Their purpose was to defend eggs and hatchlings within brood chambers. They also performed basic tasks, such as moving eggs or caring for hatchlings, but only when under supervision of other yuan-ti. They were assigned other tasks when required, including guarding prisoners or hunting.
Broodguards were created by the failed transformation of human prisoners into tainted ones by the yuan-ti. The transformation process involved forcing the prisoners to drink a special concoction brewed from yuan-ti venom and a specific mix of herbs and roots. If the humanoid survived drinking the potion but failed to transform into a tainted one, they became broodguards within a week or two. Human devotees within yuan-ti cults would undergo this process voluntarily. 
The transition could be reversed using magic. After drinking the potion, the transformation could be prevented if the following spells were cast in this order neutralize poison, dispel magic, remove curse, and heal. If successful, the process was halted and reversed however, the individuals intelligence was permanently reduced. Only a wish or miracle spell was able to return a broodguard to its original state after the transformation took effect.
Broodguards were obligate carnivores. Their diet usually consisted of vermin and insects and whatever else the yuan-ti left for them.
The process for creating tainted ones and broodguards was invented by the yuan-ti of the Serpent Hills. As of the mid-to-late 14 century DR, they were the only ones who knew this secret, however it was considered only a matter of time before the yuan-ti of Chult and Hlondeth learned it as well.
Histachii were also created by the yuan-ti occupying Wolfhill House, whose leaders were part of the Cathedral of Emerald Scales in Hlondeth.