Yuan-ti malisons, also known as halfbloods, were a subrace of the yuan-ti, a psionic race of serpent-men. The term referred to any yuan-ti with a roughly equal blend of human and serpentine features. Despite their disparate appearances, malisons shared several common abilities.
Yuan-ti halfbloods were greatly varied. They came in several body types and possessed many variations in scale patterns and colors, much like natural snakes. They tended to have body masses and sizes in the same range as humans.
Four in ten malisons appeared as agile, sharp-featured human with a serpents head and scales. Some varieties had hoods like cobras,
The remaining 60% of halfbloods fell into three remaining variations. Some had the lower body of a snake instead of legs, others had a snake-like tail, and still others had snake-like arms in place of normal arms.
thumb|left|250px|A yuan-ti malison whose form resembled that of a cobra.
Like all true yuan-ti, halfbloods had psionic powers. All yuan-ti could morph their bodies into the form of any viper and sense the presence of any poison nearby by force of will alone. Moreover, they were innately resistant to magic. In addition to these common powers, halfbloods could psionically entrance animals and instil fear or suggest actions to those of weak willpower. They could also control small plants, vines, and weeds by thought (much like the entangle spell) call forth magical darkness and neutralize any poison.
They could change the color of their skin and scales to match their environments, much like a chameleon. Their bodies oozed an acidic secretion, and their bite was venomous.
Halfbloods from House Sseradess could breathe underwater.
Snake-headed halfbloods from House SeSehen could spit venom.
Those halfbloods with tails could use them to constrict opponents, to climb, and to swim. had prehensile tails. Those with snake torsos in place of legs from House Sauringar were known to be able to puff up their bodies to look larger and more threatening.
Halfbloods with snake-like arms could bite with the fangs at the end of each appendage.
Like all yuan-ti, malisons hatched from eggs and grew to adulthood by twelve years. They could live as long as 120 years, but the average lifespan was 80 years.
Like most yuan-ti, halfbloods tended to be self-absorbed and arrogant. They tended to be far more intelligent than their pureblood kin&mdashthough slightly less intelligent than the abominations&mdashand were always plotting and scheming.
Yuan-ti in general favored high-quality weapons. Halfbloods favored scimitars and composite longbows and often wore studded leather armor. It was not uncommon for them to poison their blades and arrows.
In combat, they let the weaker purebloods fight first, while they stayed in hiding and used range weapons or their psionic abilities to confound their foes. Only if the purebloods failed would they join into melee combat.
thumb|right|268px|A yuan-ti halfblood mage with the lower torso of a snake.
Yuan-ti followed a strict hierarchical system The halfbloods receive orders from the abominations, and in turn the halfbloods rule over the purebloods. The halfbloods often served as captains or elite troops
Halfbloods spoke the Yuan-ti language, Common, and any local languages. They often learned Abyssal or Draconic as well.
The vast majority of yuan-ti, halfbloods included, worshiped the god Sseth.
Like all true yuan-ti, halfbloods were created millennia ago by the sarrukh, one of the creator races, in magical, controlled breeding experiments combining humans, serpents, and sarrukh themselves.
* Dediana Extaminos, ruler of Hlondeth