The zekyl ( , ) or half–shadow dragon drow, were an offshoot of the drow race.
A zekyl had the abilities of a drow and of a half-dragon of shadow dragon patronage. They had the good natural dexterity of normal drow, but their dragon blood erased the drows physical frailty. It also made them significantly stronger, and enhanced their already keen intellect and charisma.
Being drow elves gave them good resistance against magic that affected their will and against enchantment in general, protection against spells and an immunity to sleep magic. Their dragon side provided them with an outright immunity against being paralyzed and draining of energy and a thick hide to protect against physical attacks. They had claws and a bite usable in combat. 
Like any other drow, they had darkvision, but also gained low-light vision. They could create dancing lights, faerie fire, and darkness each once a day. 
Furthermore, they had the ability to breathe out a cone of shadows that would weaken overall any foes caught in the area. They could do this once a day. 
A distinctive feature of Chaulssinyr zekyl was a pair of wings on their back that allowed them to fly faster than they could move on land. Normally, only half-dragons of species larger than drow could have wings.
A zekyl had a predisposition for the roguish arts, with natural skill in intimidation, as well as an elfs normal keen senses.
Zekylyn were the half-dragon offspring of Clan Jaezreds shadow dragons and the drow of Chaulssin, who were enslaved by the dragons. In 634 DR, the dragons were overthrown.
In 734 DR, the now-free citizens of Chaulssin escaped to the Plane of Shadow to evade the armies of Menzoberranzan, who were bent on killing them for being heretics. On the Plane of Shadow, they were part of the founders of Chaulmurssin. They learned of a way to divide their dragon and drow lineages, leading to the creation of the race of the drow-dragon. They returned in a significant number to Toril in 1136 DR.
In 1372, the majority of the zekyl lived in Chaulssin and formed the majority of the Jaezred Chaulssins membership by a large margin.