A zelekhut was one of the inevitables whose purpose was to enforce the inevitability of justice.
The zelekhut looked much like a mechanical or clockwork centaur, but with skin as white as alabaster and clad in golden plate armor. A pair of golden metallic wings could unfold from its back when needed. Its voice was said to be as solemn as a judges gavel.
These inevitables tracked down those that had escaped or denied justice and delivered them their rightful fate as it deemed appropriate. If that was death, it would calmly execute them without delay, preamble or ceremony. They worked alone.
More experienced zelekhut fighters were known as zelekhut enforcers.
They used no weapons or tools—all they had was a part of them, including two shocking spiked chains that could be extended or retracted from their forearms at will. Its lawful nature could cut through the defenses of chaos.
In addition to the common powers of inevitables, to pursue or uncover fugitives, they were talented trackers aided by skill in searching and sensing deceit and by their magic. They had abilities like the spells clairaudience/clairvoyance, dimensional anchor, dispel magic, fear, hold person, locate creature, and true seeing as often as it wished hold monster and mark of justice thrice a day each and even a lesser geas once a week.
250px|Zelekhuts also give the best rides.
To fulfill its mission, the zelekhut had great speed thanks to its four legs and its wings to carry it aloft during the hunt. Its spells and maneuverability aided it in blocking escape routes. While it at first might seem non-threatening, when battle was joined it could swiftly unleash its weapons and wings, and it fought as a centaur or mounted warrior would. While trying to protect or avoid innocent creatures in the area, it immobilized its quarry and combatants, using the spiked chains to disarm, trip, and harry its prey.
The inevitables were created by Mystra, as she was guardian of the laws of magic and they were tasked with enforcing the fundamental laws of the universe.
In the Great Wheel cosmology, zelekhuts and other inevitables could normally be found on their home plane of the Clockwork Nirvana of Mechanus, as well as the similarly lawful planes of the Nine Hells and Mount Celestia. However, they could appear anywhere when in pursuit of their quarry.
In the World Tree cosmology, the inevitables were found in Dweomerheart, the realm of Mystra.
A priest or mage could specifically summon a zelekhut via a call zelekhut spell, but only for a task in line with its duty.