Zoveri were a race of aquatic humanoids.
The upper-body of a zoveri resembled that of a fair and beautiful humanoid, slim like an elf yet finely muscled like a human, while their lower-half was composed of octopus-like tentacles.
Zoveri considered all life to be sacred and because of this they loathed combat of any form. They were widely known for their kindness, going so far as to not even loathe evil creatures. They were readily willing to lend aid to any lifeform that needed it, even those that were evil, though in the latter case they would dispel the creature after aiding it.
They loved to walk on land, sometimes for long periods, though they would always return to the sea eventually.
Underwater their voices carried across distances of up to , while above water their voices carried twice that distance. Their bodies were constantly on the move, even when stationery. Much like an actual octopus, a zoveri could expel a dark cloud of ink to defend themselves.
Despite their appearance, zoveri had no relations to centaurs, bariaurs, mermen, or tritons.
Every fall zoveri would migrate to warmer waters, where females would lay thousands of tiny eggs and males would exude sperm to fertilize them. They would then return to their familiar territories, leaving the eggs unguarded. Those who survive always managed to return to their parents, ready to be incorporated into their school.
Twice per day, a zoveri could transform themselves into an elf-like form to leave their watery habitat and traverse the land.
Zoveri were capable of casting the following spells bless, create food and water, detect evil, forget, fumble, know alignment, and resist cold. Three times per day they could cast the spells water breathing and water walk. Once per day they could cast the spell cure disease and dispel evil. In addition, they could the spells cure serious wounds and neutralize poison once a day per individual.
If four zoveri gathered together in a circle and joined hands, they could perform a ritual to conjure an elemental. This ritual involved singing ancient songs of beckoning and performing complex swimming patterns, a sort of underwater dance.
When forced to engage in combat, zoveri typically used long metal spears that above water they were capable of throwing like javelins. However, they were relatively inexperienced combatants.
On their home plane zoveri were considered to be bastions of good and guardians of life, an essential part of its ecology. They strove to make sure that no one who entered their home plane would drown. If it was a good creature that entered their plane, they would help it to shore. If it was an evil creature, the zoveri would give it whatever aid it needed for shoving to back through the portal they came through.
Whenever creatures struggling within the water would not allow zoveri near them, they would patiently wait until it succumbed to the water. Then the zoveri would drag their unconscious body to shore and administer aid.
Ancient records indicated that zoveri once were a largely solitary race, but for much of their existence people only knew of them living in schools, much like fish. Some sages speculated that this chance might have come about in response to encroaching predators.
Zoveri were an omnivorous species. They primarily consumed fish, mollusks, and certain species of seaweed.
Zoveri resided within the plane of Seven Heavens in its lowest layer, the infinite ocean Lunia.
When traversing the surface world of Mount Celestia, zoveri would mingle with petitioners and other planars. Water elementals were typically known to come to their aid.
Zoveri were a favored monster of the Seldarine deity Deep Sashelas.