The Battle of the Evermoors was a conflict fought sometime around 1400 DR between Uthgardt warriors of the Elk tribe and a cell of the Cult of the Dragon and the black dragon Rakor for control of the helmet of disjunction.The battle is undated but is "a century ago" from the date of Honor Among Thieves, which is itself undated but assumed to be the late 1490s DR. The , is a likely candidate.
The battle, naturally enough, took place on the Evermoors of the Savage Frontier, and Rakors home and hunting ground. It was somewhere south of Nesmé.
The battle was fought for control of the helmet of disjunction, a powerful magic item with the ability to break all magic.Its unknown how and why Stanhard had the helmet of disjunction, nor why the Cult of the Dragon wanted it beyond its magical and monetary value. The product description for the Rakor Nerf blaster toy describes Rakor as unleashing acid breath on adventures who dared challenge him or touch his treasure, which is perhaps meant to imply the Elk tribe stole the Helmet from his hoard. This at least fits the Elk tribes usual habits.
A tragedy on the morning of the battle was the untimely death of Elk warrior Sven Salafin, who stepped out of the bath, slipped on a wet stone floor, hit his head on the edge of the tub, and died. It did not augur well for the coming conflict.
thumb|right|350px|Rakor swoops in above the charging of the Cult of the Dragon...
The barbarian warriors of the Elk tribe largely fought on foot, but had brought trebuchets to hurl flaming shots at their enemy. The Dragon Cultists charged into the their ranks on horseback with others on foot. Although Stanhards Elk warriors outnumbered the Dragon Cultists, the enemy had the dragon Rakor on their side, who more than made up the difference by flying overhead and vomiting acid on the barbarians ranks.
thumb|350px|...leaving a trail of destruction and death in his wake.
Badly pressed, Stanhard gave the helmet to one of his men, Toke Horgath, to carry to safety, but Toke was abruptly cut in half by a Dragon Cultist. Ordering a retreat, Stanhard retrieved the helmet and entrusted it to his fastest rider, Ven Salafin, to get it away from Rakor however he could, before the chief was killed as well, dissolved in acid by the dragon.
But as Ven fled the field of battle with the helm, he was injured and lost his horse. He was forced to crawl to safety, then collapsed, and lay dying. At last, he was met by the heroic Thayan paladin Xenk Yendar, whod entered the battle in hopes of saving lives. Xenk inspected Vens wounds but could not help him, and promised to protect the Helmet. Believing him, Ven gave up the helm and expired.
The fallen Elk tribesmen were interred at a sacred burial ground on the site of the battle.
A century later, in the late 1490s DR, the bodies of these fallen warriors were exhumed by Edgin Darvis, Simon Aumar, Doric, and Holga Kilgore (a member of the Elk tribe herself), using Simons deathly token to speak with the dead. Their purpose was to learn the fate of the helmet of disjunction.