The Bloodstone Wars were a series of battles waged during the , in Damara between the Barony of Bloodstone and the various puppet duchies and baronies of Zhengyi the Witch-King. Each battle ended in a decisive victory for the then-baron of Bloodstone, Gareth Dragonsbane.
The Bloodstone Wars took place across northern Damara, predominantly in Bloodstone Valley and the Duchy of Brandiar.
The war pitted the Barony of Bloodstone against a series of increasingly dangerous enemies in late spring of the , with nearly every battle ending in such a decisive victory that it effectively neutralized the losing party as a major political player in Damara. The first major battle was waged against the Duchy of Arcata, the second against the Duchy of Carmathan, the third against the combined strength of the Baronies of Morov, Ostel, and Polten, and the final battles were against the Kingdom of Vaasa and their allies at the Citadel of Assassins.While H3 The Bloodstone Wars lays out multiple potential timelines and versions of the conflict, and the introduction to H4 The Throne of Bloodstone outlines a default version of the war, The Bloodstone Lands sourcebook gives the canonical timeline of events. Using the flowchart on page 15 of H3 The Bloodstone Wars, the canonical version roughly corresponds to the timeline defined by A &rarr C &rarr D &rarr G &rarr I &rarr K &rarr L &rarr N &rarr O &rarr Q &rarr S. The entire conflict, from the beginning of the first battle to the fall of the Witch-King, was only a few tendays.
The Bloodstone Wars were the culmination of the chaos inflicted on Damara by Zhengyi the Witch-King following his victory in the Vaasan War in the , which entailed the death of King Virdin Bloodfeathers along with most of the ruling nobility of Damara, and the subsequent installing of the Witch-Kings puppets as the leaders of every major Damaran duchy and barony save for Bloodstone. These rulers squabbled among each other, and as taxes rose to cover the cost of tribute to the Witch-King, a refugee crisis began.
The seeds of the conflict itself were sown in the next year, the , when Gareth Dragonsbane and his companions accepted a request by Baron Tranth of Bloodstone to protect the people of Bloodstone Village from bandits affiliated with the Citadel of Assassins. By winter, the bandits had been driven off and the Bloodstone Mines had been reclaimed from Zhengyis allies, drawing the ire of the Witch-King and of his puppets. By Mirtul of 1359 DR, Gareth had married the barons daughter, Christine, and had been declared the new Baron of Bloodstone. Soon after, he and his companions arrived in Heliogabalus escorting approximately one million gold pieces worth of newly mined bloodstone from the reclaimed Mines. Rumor of these incredible riches spread quickly, drawing thousands of refugees and immigrants to Bloodstone Valley and attracting the jealous and greedy attention of Duke William Horgath of Arcata and Duke Helmont the 14th of Carmathan, both of whom made plans to invade the Barony of Bloodstone.
William Horgath, known as William the Lazy, was the first to move against Bloodstone. He was supported by the Grandfather of Assassins, leader of the Citadel of Assassins, who sought to destroy Bloodstone in retaliation for the humiliation of his forces at Bloodstone Village and the disruption of his master Zhengyis plans in Bloodstone Mines the year prior. The first act of war was an assassination attempt on the lives of Gareth Dragonsbane and his compatriots in Bloodstone Village, which was carried out by a member of the Citadel of the Assassins known as The Fist. On the heels of this effort, William the Lazy declared war on Bloodstone on the basis of a manufactured slight, and within a month his armies had marched up the old Kings Road and arrived in Bloodstone Valley.
thumb|left|200px|The fortified gate of Bloodstone Village.The first major battle was fought outside the walls of Bloodstone Village between the forces of Bloodstone, led by Gareth Dragonsbane and his companions, and the invading army of the Duchy of Arcata, which was mostly composed of conscripts and recruits as the Duchy had lost most of its veterans during the Vaasan War. The night prior, the Arcatan generals had received a message from Gareth imploring them "We are of common heritage, common suffering, and common goals. Why, then, do we fight?" Mistaking this for a sign of weakness, the Arcantans marched directly into a trap the following day.
When they arrived at Bloodstone Village, the 1,650 Arcatans found that they were faced with a well-fortified settlement protected by 1,180 well-trained soldiers. Almost immediately, they were then flanked by a force of 320 dwarves from Bloodstone Mines, 200 halflings from the Warren, and 160 centaurs from the Warrenwood. Although suddenly outnumbered, the Arcatans refused to surrender, and the battle began. Within minutes, nearly a fifth of the Arcatan army, approximately 300 soldiers, were already dead or wounded. At this point, Gareth Dragonsbane again sued for peace, and the Arcatans accepted. Gareth personally rode through the Arcatan lines unarmed to negotiate their surrender.
Gareth was both magnanimous and absolute in his terms. The conditions of the surrender were that Arcata would never again assault Bloodstone Valley, and that they would allow Gareths army to pass through their lands unimpeded. The Arcatans were free to return home with no payment or restrictions, but with Arcatas army at his mercy, Gareth made it clear that William the Lazy would only continue to rule Arcata because Bloodstone allowed him to. In what would come to be known as "Gareths Gamble," he effectively invited the Arcatan army to join him in an effort to unify Damara, and miraculously, nearly half of the army agreed to do so.
thumb|right|160px|An infantryman in the army of Bloodstone.Having heard of the intentions of Duke Helmont the 14th of Carmathan to invade Bloodstone, Gareth mobilized his army almost immediately after the victory over Arcata and marched south to battle the Carmathans before they could muster their full strength. As he marched, word of Gareths Gamble spread, and another 300 Arcatan soldiers flocked to his banner. The two forces clashed at the Brandiar Moor near the border of the duchies of Arcata, Carmathan, and Brandiar, about  east of the Arcatan capital of Valls.
The Carmathan force numbered 1,779 but the Carmathans will to fight was strong having fully bought into the lie that Gareth had come to invade and pillage their home. The battle raged for three days until Duke Helmont the 14th was killed by Gareths wizard companion, Emelyn the Gray, supposedly by accident. Carmathan suffered more than 900 casualties while Bloodstone suffered only 500.
Although Carmathan was now entirely vulnerable, Gareth did not press on after his hard-fought victory. Instead, his attention turned to the armies of an alliance among the southern baronies who now marched against him.
During Gareths campaign in Carmathan, a group called the Thunkers raided and bombed Bloodstone Village. These were allies of Zhengyi and former members of the Citadel of Assassins bandit army.
Fed by more lies that Bloodstone meant to threaten their independence, the armies of the Baronies of Morov, Ostel, and Polten marched against Gareth as soon as the Fight of Three Borders had ended. These lies were supplied by the barons of these lands Baron Dimian Ree of Morov, Baroness Sylvia Praka of Ostel, and Baron Zorth BelMaris of Polten, all of whom were Zhengyis puppets. Even so, the Bloodstone army continued to grow as new recruits flocked to the inspiring Gareth Dragonsbane, drawn by tales of his strength, honor, and mercy. a force which was smaller than Bloodstones despite these baronies being the most populous regions in Damara.
The alliance split its forces into two armies with the intent of trapping Bloodstones army in a pincer. Approximately 1,000 troops from Polten rode straight for Bloodstone Pass, prompting Gareth to lead his army homeward. This force planned to ambush Gareth while the alliances other army of approximately 1,200 from Morov and Ostel chased behind his army to push them into the trap. However, the halflings of the Warren ambushed the Polten forces in the Warrenwood, and within a day had slain 100 and captured the remaining 900 in the third major battle of the war. Meanwhile, having learned that the threat to Bloodstone Pass was alleviated, Gareth turned his troops to face the alliances second army, which he now outnumbered two-to-one. Bloodstone won this third major battle handily, and forced a surrender of the alliance. The prisoners taken by the halflings, who had been treated exceptionally well, were released by Gareth. 
By this time, Zhengyis army had begun to mobilize from his Damaran headquarters at Helmsdale in the Duchy of Soravia, and Gareth implored the armies of the defeated baronies to join him in fighting for Damaras freedom. Despite orders from their rulers to return home, Gareth gained the support of more than 1,000 soldiers, nearly half of the alliances army, including most of the contingent from Polten. 
Once Zhengyis forces became involved in the war, Gareth bid his allies among the Order of the Golden Cup to send aid to the town of Palischuk in Vaasa to help them resist the Witch-King. They sent a force of 50 soldiers, 3 wizards, and a number of clerics led by two knights, Sir Donegan and Maryin Felspur. This force successfully drew Zhengyis attention, and managed to fortify Palischuk and even repel an attack by Zhnegyis white dragon ally, Byphast the Frozen Death. However, this entire force would be wiped out when Zhengyi personally lured them into the lair of the black dragon Urshula.
As his army amassed to meet the forces of Vaasa, Gareth and his adventuring companions launched a small-scale assault on the Citadel of Assassins in the Galena Mountains.
The location of the Citadel was acquired from a captured assassin,
Returning to the battlefield, Gareth led the army of Bloodstone, now perhaps more appropriately an army of Damara, to clash with the army of Zhengyis Kingdom of Vaasa. Their forces were bolstered by surprise aid from the commonfolk of the Duchy of Brandiar, who rallied a militia led by a 25 year old farmer named Dormythyrr, and the Vaasan forces were pushed back. Soon, the two armies faced off across the Ford of Goliad, the site of Damaras catastrophic defeat in the Vaasan War just two years prior, and it was here that the last major battle occurred. 2 reds and a white known as Glacialamacus. Zhengyis dragons were soon driven off, and it was rumored that this was accomplished almost singlehandedly by Kane, a monk companion of Gareth Dragonsbane. He was said to have avoided all of their breath weapons&mdashand even tricked them into breathing on each other&mdashbefore injuring them with his blows and leaving them vulnerable to the Damaran soldiers.
Despite having the advantage of numbers, it was clear that if the Damarans attempted to cross the Ford, they would be cut down. Thus, separated from Bloodstone Village by their enemies, the army had no choice but to settle into a stalemate. Gareth and his companions broke this stalemate by again departing the battlefield, this time to launch an assault against Zhenghis personal stronghold of Castle Perilous. They succeeded in slaying the Witch-King and severing his connection to Orcus, without whose power the zombies, ghouls, and skeletons that made up the bulk of the Vaasan forces simply disintegrated. With their numbers diminished and morale destroyed, the Vaasan army was easily beaten back and driven out of Damara, fleeing through Bloodstone Pass to the Black Holes of Sunderland.
With Zhengyi defeated, Gareth was hailed as a hero and a savior by many Damarans, although the people of the southern baronies remained skeptical of him. He was surrounded by calls for him to claim the mantle of the King of Damara&mdasha title to which he held a strong claim thanks to his wifes bloodline In Vaasa, Gareth hired adventurers and bounty hunters to root out his enemies. In Damara, his forces were led by his ranger companion Olwen Forest-Friend, who swept through Soravia, Gareth was ultimately declared King of Damara also before before the end of that year.
An individual bearing the likeness of Duke Rowan Darkwood, one of the factols of Sigil, was witnessed aiding in the defeat of the Witch-King Zhengyi.