The dragonborn rebellion was a revolt against the dragon tyrants of Laerakond, led by the dragonborn slave clans of Skelkor, that also involved the human slaves of Eskorn, in the late years of the 13th century DR.
In the late years of the 13th century DR, dragonborn and human slaves rebelled against the dragon lords of the nations of Skelkor and Eskorn. In Eskorn, the rebellion was led by the legendary human hero Aunglass Roaryl. Aunglass himself killed the dragon emperor Eskornamundyr, allowing the Eskornar humans to overcome their dragon masters.
After the battle in Eskorn was over, the dragonborn rebels focused their efforts on freeing their clans in Skelkor. The dragonborn heroines Iskdara and Shurideh killed the powerful silver dragon Asativarainuth in the major battle of Arambar Gulch, obtaining the powerful artifact known as the Eye of Blazing Rorn. The two dragonborn sisters later joined forces with the leaders of other rebel war bands, in order to kill the most powerful of the dragon tyrants of Abeir, the red dragon Rhodrolytharnestrix.
While the rest of the dragonborn leaders led their war bands against Rhodrolytharnestrixs dragon army, the heroes Iskara, Shurideh, Reshvemi, and Thuchir infiltrated the Celestial Mountain, a dormant volcano where Rhodrolytharnestrix had his lair, and dropped the Eye of Blazing Rorn into the volcano, triggering an eruption so powerful that it killed Rhodrolytharnestrix, even though he was a red dragon. This battle was later known as the Battle of the Crippled Mountain.
The Celestial Mountain was destroyed, and was called the Crippled Mountain since then. The dragonborn heroes survived the explosion and reunited with the other rebel leaders, creating the dragonborn nation of Tymanchebar. The ash from the eruption fell for forty days, and the dragonborn began to call themselves the "vayemniri" (Ash-Marked Ones, in Draconic), so that they would always remember the way they gained their freedom.
With Eskornamundyr dead, the Eskornar humans earned their freedom as well, and Eskorn became a human-dominated land.