The Juzimura rebellion were the two revolts and subsequent slaughter of thousands of "radical" worshipers of Chantea and their displaced ronin allies by the government forces of Wa in the mid-1700s on the Wa Calendar.No official name is known for this conflict, but "the Juzimura rebellion of 1755" is mentioned on page 176 of Kara-Tur The Eastern Realms.Although these two conflicts are not specifically connected, they are included together here for their close similarity and likely relationship.
Although the shogunate of Wa had already banned the worship of the western god Chantea, daimyo Bokika Hokio of Hotomori Province in the south of Tsukishima openly gave priests of Chantea sanctuary in his lands. He saw nothing wrong with their harvest deity, and as nephew of the shogun, he did not fear a backlash.
Despite this, in Wa Year 1753 (1335 DR), the then shogun led a force of 15,000 samurai to Juzimura and surrounded Juzimura Castle. Its defenses proved impenetrable, and weeks of siege and bloody yet futile fighting ensued. Finally, the shogun presented a deal if Hokio and his officers surrendered, they would retain their status. As their supplies were running out, Hokio accepted this. However, the shogun relocated Hokio to distant Fochu Province, while the priests of Chantea were executed.
After Matasuuri Nagahide became shogun the previous year and instituted various xenophobic policies,Although most sources say the Chantea worshipers and ronin "seized" the castle, page 171 of Kara-Tur The Eastern Realms refers to "their siege" of the castle, seemingly reversing their roles. This is presumed to be in error.
The shogun sent his troops to purge the castle of its inhabitants and after a brief siege they slaughtered and executed thousands of the rebels. Moreover, they destroyed the castle and left it in ruins. This was believed to the final stand of the followers of Chantea and the cult was officially considered eradicated.
Subsequently, the shogun declared the worship of Chantea punishable by execution and denounced the deity herself as illegal. Nevertheless, Jutei-Ni, wife of daimyo Matasuuri Kimmu, advocated for the Chantea cults to be accepted as an official religion.