The Last Stand at Humaithira was a vicious battle that saw the giants of the Gods Legion Mountains fight against the army of Netheril in the Lodestar Mountains.
Giants led by Thane Blóta of Skammháls emerged from the Gods Legion Mountains in , marching west into the central lands of Netheril. Splitting his army into eight groups, Blóta was able to easily encircle Xanth. They sacked the village and marched on, preceded by waves of refugees who spread warning of the invasion. Those who fled south across Basin Lake first reached the enclave of Undrentide, and though High Netheril was alerted there was no grand response from them to save Low Netheril. The giants were able to march uncontested across Netheril until they attempted to cross the Lodestar Mountains at the Pass of Humaithira.
The giants were blocked in the pass by Strategor Matick, accompanied by 600 phalanxes and his core of 100 elite myrmidar. The pass was narrow enough that only a single giant could traverse it at a time, putting them at a great disadvantage. At first the Netherese were able to use their advantageous position, superior tactics, and battle-magic to hold the giants off, but Blóta countered with his own tactics. He had his shamans use their totemic magic to pass through the granite walls of the pass and reappear behind Maticks forces, surrounding them.
With his forces trapped, Strategor Matick gave a warcry to the Reaver and struck at the enemy forces. Thane Blóta returned the challenge and met Matick in single combat. Though most of his myrmidar had already fallen, Matick used his glaive and spells with utmost precision and held the line, though in the end a single mistake allowed Blóta to drive him to his knees and take his head. Despite the fierce resistance, the giants managed to win the day and continued onwards through the pass.
Although the giants had won, their victory had doomed them. They had taken too many casualties and were sorely delayed in their advance, allowing Netherils forces enough time to gather and prepare for the next battle, which came on the shores of the Hidden Lake outside of Trinity. During the battle the Netherese used "Humaithira" as their rallying cry, and the memory of Strategor Matick and his myrmidar gave them great courage. Thanks to his sacrifice, Thane Blóta and his army were soundly defeated there at Trinity.
The battle was detailed in Triumph Exemplar, a collection of Netherese military history.