The Sschindylryn invasion of Eveningstar was a part of the War of Everlasting Darkness, which saw the Spider Queen Lolth send the drow city of Sschindylryn to war with Cormyr under the cover of the Darkening, primarily fought in the Kings Forest and the village of Eveningstar. The goal of the war was the capture of the Thread of the Weave, Ana Brabener, who Lolth intended to consume and use to further her manipulation of the Weave and the creation of the Demon Weave. The fighting around the invasion of Eveningstar spilled into the Underdark and the Demonweb Pits, and even the isolated world of Eberron was drawn into Lolths plans. The invasion also allowed other forces to take advantage and act openly while the forces of Cormyr were distracted, including the Shadovar of Risen Netheril and the insane druid Halsaime of Thorngap.
200px|thumb|The corruption of Uthe Lodge would have led to the destruction of Eveningstar.
While traveling to the Storm Horns, Oriphaun Huntsilver overcame a Netherese arcanist and took his magical staff, which he correctly identified as a dangerously powerful artifact. He gave it to his friend Halsaime to handle, expecting the senior druid to do well, but instead Halsaime was subverted by its malign influence and driven to a peculiar madness. He took over the druid circle of Thorngap, drove the creatures and fey into a frenzy, and used red musk creepers to create an army of zombies.
The ranger Peron Uthe was infected with the disease and returned to the Eveningstar War Hospital for treatment, only to transform there and infect many other patients with his plague. Despite the pressing drow invasion, the short-staffed Anazar Narroun sent some adventurers to deal with the situation, where they worked with head priest Hurim Jaskyr in creating an inoculation against the red musk creepers, allowing Peron Uthe to be safely destroyed. Shortly afterwards, the healer Eolynn Arva reported that Uthe Lodge was overgrown with strange plants, and the inspection found the malevolent dryad Sylvie building an army within the former home. Working with Harper Jussko Kwahn the dryad and her tree were destroyed, and Halsaimes involvement was determined. The Harpers pursued his trail to Thorngap, his home at Thorn Hollow, and finally the Druids Deep where he made his last stand. With the druid slain and the staff destroyed, Eveningstar and the world were spared one more peril, though the battle with the drow continued.
In a tragic turn, the Eveningstar War Hospital was struck by a second disaster. While fighting the drow in the Kings Forest, a patrol of Purple Dragons was attacked by what seemed like wild beasts and then returned to Eveningstar for treatment. Unknown to all, they had been infected with lycanthropy. The first sign that something was wrong was when the head priest Hurim Jaskyr was murdered by an involuntarily-transforming werewolf, which prompted a lockdown of the building, though no Purple Dragons or War Wizards could be spared to investigate.
The healer Delethir Mistveil brought in a team of adventurers who quickly discovered the werewolf problem and began rescuing the patients even while fending off those that suddenly transformed into bloodthirsty beasts. When they finally got the doors open, the pack leader Ogiyon Tomain burst into the building, having followed his victims there and seeking revenge for those of his pack that had already been slain that night. Though many perished, the hospital was ultimately saved from complete destruction and the werewolf leader killed.