to 
The Thousand Year War was a conflict between dragonkind and the giant nation of Ostoria. It began in the Time of Dragons, c. , and lasted until c. , after both races reached a truce.
In the few centuries that followed their arrival to Toril, dragons generally kept aloof of the giants and ignored them, But they regularly preyed upon the herds of animals the giants founded and tended, such as elk and rothé. This led to many minor conflicts with the giants,
The war truly began in circa -26000 DR. but by most accounts it was when the dragon god Garyx sent an avatar to lead a flight of red dragons to attack the giant nation.
With that act of aggression the giants finally felt that dragonkind posed a serious threat to them and Ostoria went to war. And soon afterward, all races of dragonkind were involved in the conflict.
The giants created a powerful colossus construct called Vonindod to help them in the fight against the dragons,
One of the most renowned heroes of the war was the frost giant Hjurnur Wyrmrever, who killed many dragons single-handedly, though he could not match the Vonindod in terms of wyrms slain. He was credited during this time with killing an adult blue dragon with a single blow of his axe and for breaking the spine of a black dragon over his knees. He ultimately died fighting an ancient gold dragon general that had previously destroyed many a giant city, though some would say it was a king.
Despite the giants best efforts, the dragons ultimately drove them out of the southern portion of Ostoria. The Vonindod was then deployed in the northern reaches of the kingdom to defend the cities therein.
After more than a thousand years of warfare, Ostoria finally reached a truce with dragonkind. Accounts of the nature of the truce were conflicting because many races accounted the event differently. Historians among the smallfolk typically claimed that the dragons had abandoned the war for reasons of their own. According to dwarven historians, the dragons wanted to end the war with the giants because they were fighting in a violent civil war that led to the separation of the chromatic and metallic species.
According to giant traditions, Annam All-Father and Garyx settled the war by playing a game of wah-ree. The game ended in a stalemate. A result which allowed the dragons to keep the territories they had won in the war.
A third account stated that the war ended as a result of a curse that struck Tiamat after she slew an unknown giant deity. She was doomed to become a prisoner of Tiamats Lair in Avernus, only able to leave the plane if summoned by a powerful ritual.
After the end of the conflict, the giants dismantled the construct Vonindod, and its pieces were shared among the surviving giant cities.
By the time the war concluded, Ostoria had been reduced to a shadow of its former self. On the day the truce was declared, the nation occupied only the northernmost edge of Faerûn, the areas now known as the Great Glacier, the Cold Lands, and the Savage North.
Some sages believed that, if Tiamat were to be successfully summoned back to the Prime Material plane, it would result in an end to the truce and the return of hostilities between the two races.