The Vaasan War was a decade-long conflict between the Kingdom of Damara and the Kingdom of Vaasa during the mid 14 century DR in which Zhengyi the Witch-King rose to power and successfully conquered both realms.
The war began in Vaasa itself with Zhengyis conquest of the Sunderland in the south and Ostraland in the north, but much of the war occurred on Damaran soil and climaxed at the Ford of Goliad. That said, Impiltur also felt the effects of the war with Zhengyi owing to the complete disruption of Damaran trade that it caused.
Zhengyi the Witch-King appeared in Vaasa and raised Castle Perilous in a single night in ,The Forgotten Realms campaign sets for both the 1st edition (set 1357 DR) and 2nd edition (set 1368 DR) give Zhengyis appearance as happening "20 years ago." The 3rd edition onward continued from the date established in the 2nd edition, and set the year as 1347 DR. thus declaring himself ruler of a new Kingdom of Vaasa. He raised an undead army and quickly gained allegiance of the lands evil inhabitants, including the dreaded Citadel of Assassins, and began a war of conquest across Vaasa and Damara.
While the war did not arrive in Damara until , the fighting began in , when Zhengyis forces conquered Vaasa immediately after the erection of Castle Perilous. while the southern town of Darmshall was the only settlement to withstand Zhengis assault, but would become a puppet state of the Witch-King. At the same time, Zhengyi worked to cripple Damaras economy by dispatching demons to the Bloodstone Mines&mdasha critical source of Damaras key export of bloodstone gems
When the snows melted in early 1348 DR, the forces of Zhengyis Kingdom of Vaasa crossed the Galena Mountains and began their invasion of Damara, committed atrocities and massacres everywhere they struck. The fighting was largely confined to Damaras northern duchies of Arcata, Brandiar, and what would become Soravia. 
Damaran defenses were somewhat disorganized. Most resistance took the form of militias led by local lords, including a young Gareth Dragonsbane, who won every battle he led, and Kidaez Tahlard, a nobleman who died early in the war when the forces of Vaasa encroached on his estate. The Vaasan and Damaran forces fought many skirmishes, including a battle at High Moon wherein a mercenary company known as the Men of the Red Blade suffered losses.
As the war dragged on, Damaran territory in the north, including Bloodstone Pass, became increasingly cut off from the Kingdom of Damara. Even so, it was five years until the war truly began to turn against the Damarans. The first notable settlement to fall was Helmsdale, a town of 500 that was decimated and became the Vaasan headquarters for the remainder of the war and beyond. A number of displaced and desperate refugees joined forces with bandits in the Galenas, and under the leadership of the Grandfather of Assassins, began pillaging and demanding tribute from surrounding towns, including Bloodstone Village.
As the depredations of the Witch-King became clearer, the peoples of both Impiltur and Narfell grew increasingly concerned about Zhengyis ambitions, but neither made any major effort to support Damara.
Despite minimal support from their neighbors, the Damarans held off Zhengyi for another four years. 
The two sides then arrived at an apparent stalemate during the summer of , when the army of King Virdin Bloodfeathers met the Vaasan forces at the Ford of Goliad. This site was both the critical crossing point of the Beaumaris River and also a death trap for whichever army attempted to cross it while the other held the opposite side. The war had been tremendously costly for Damara to this point, and because of this, the young King Virdin was swayed to accept a gambit that he believed would allow him to surprise the Vaasan forces. The king was provided a magic wand that was meant to allow his troops to cross the river undetected, but in truth this was a ruse overseen by Zhengyi and the "wand" was a simple stick with twelve castings of Nystuls magic aura upon it. Thus the disastrous Battle of Goliad occurred and the army of Damara was slaughtered when they attempted to cross the Ford while King Virdin was assassinated as he watched the carnage in horror. Subsequently, it was widely believed that the kings chief lieutenant, Felix, was Zhengyis agent who both provided the "wand" to the king and was perhaps the assassin as well.
Zhengyi and his allies in the Citadel of Assassins quickly capitalized on their victory, leveling the town of Goliad In the Barony of Ostel, the entirety of the ruling House Praka was killed, and likewise in the Barony of Polten, Baron Donlevy the Old and all of House BelMaris were wiped out. With all leadership positions across the duchies thus now held by either puppets of Zhengyi or known cowards too scared to stand against him, the Witch-King quickly claimed control over all of Damara.
With most of Damaras experienced soldiers now dead and its leaders assassinated, the realm was unable to stand against Zhengyi any further. He claimed the northern duchies as his own, He further demanded that the southern baronies pay hefty tribute to his Kingdom of Vaasa, and hand-selected the rulers of most of these realms, sometimes selecting for loyalty but more often selecting for incompetence. The result was in-fighting between the southern rulers and heavy taxes on the people. While this arrangement was often considered a devious decision on his part, ensuring control of the northern regions (where most of Damaras mineral wealth was located) while leaving the southern regions unable to unite against him,
After consolidating his control, Zhengyi then turned his attention away from Damara as he plotted to grow his strength. Two years later, the Bloodstone Wars would erupt in Damara between the squabbling baronies.
Zhengyis army consisted of three main groups. The first were the demon and undead forces made available to him through his allegiance to Orcus. The second were the monstrous humanoids, goblinoids, and giants of Vaasa, who flocked to him when he first declared his rule over Vaasa. The last group included Vaasan humans, such as the White Worm tribe and the Citadel of Assassins. 
King Virdins army was comprised of the soldiers and militia of Damara, led by the Damaran nobility, with some very minor support of neighboring realms, namely Narfell and Impiltur.