The War of the Shining Crusade was a series of battles fought between the crusaders of Caelar Argent the "Shining Lady", and the Coalition army that comprised soldiers from Waterdeep, Baldurs Gate, and Daggerford. It took place in the latter half of the .
While the War of the Shining Crusade was rather short, lasting only a matter of months in 1368 DR, its lasting effects were felt all along the Sword Coast. Many villages and small towns were razed and tens of thousands of individuals were displaced from their homes.
The crusade army ravaged much of the lands surrounding Dragonspear Castle, from the High Moor in the east to Trollbark Forest in the west, as south beyond the Winding Water river. Significant battles were fought at Boareskyr Bridge, the Coalition war camp near Dead Mans Pass, and Dragonspear Castle.
As a result of the crusades actions, many villages and small towns within the Sword Coast were outright destroyed by loss of goods and people. Nearby cities were overrun with refugees and an atmosphere of dread gripped the region for many weeks. 
The final battle at Dragonspear Castle marked the decisive end of the Shining Crusade.
Some time around Eleint 1 of 1368 DR, the Shining Crusade formed around the site of Dragonspear Castle, and soon began to rapidly extended their control south, beyond the Winding Water. Their aggressive actions greatly disrupted trade and forced entire populations from their homes. The refugees often sought shelter in larger cities, like the metropolis of Baldurs Gate, leading to overcrowding and civil unrest.
In early Uktar, member-states of the Lords Alliance – including the Lords of Waterdeep, the Council of Four of Baldurs Gate, and the mayor of Daggerford – rallied soldiers from their respective armed forces and formed a coalition army, to march upon Dragonspear Castle and meet the threat of the Shining Crusade. The armies of Waterdeep and Daggerford had to rally north of the castle, whereas the Flaming Fist of Baldurs Gate had to travel north, from their city far to the south.
As the Flaming Fist traveled north from Baldurs Gate along the Coast Way they reached the site where it crossed the Winding River, which had been barricaded by the Shining Crusade. Before the Fist soldiers could cross, a crusader by the name of Jayvis panicked and used a fireball combined with explosives to demolish the bridge. 
The Crusade then besieged the small settlement of Bridgefort, as that was the nearest crossing point of the Winding Water. The siege was a lengthy one, as those within held out for over a tenday. While it was unknown if the Bridgefort defenders fled their stronghold, or the crusades siege camp was dismantled, the end result was the same – members of the crusade attempted to demolish Boareskyr Bridge, to prevent the Flaming Fist from pursuing them along the Trade Way. They were thwarted in this effort by the Hero of Baldurs Gate, his adventuring party, and the Fist mercenaries.
Once the Flaming Fist crossed the Winding Water, they rallied with the rest of the forces at the Coalition War Camp. The coalition commanders enlisted the Hero of Baldurs Gate and his adventuring companion to pursue Caelar Argents top advisor Revered Brother Hephernaan, within the basement of Dragonspear Castle. Beyond that objective, Cedric deLancie sought to have them sabotage the crusades efforts by setting explosive in the caverns surrounding the Nepenthe River, and if possible, poisoning the crusades food stores and water supply. 
Just after the hero and his party returned, Caelar Argent arranged for a parlay between her and her offices, and the commanders of the Coalition. The Shining Lady offered to turn over her army to the Coalition leaders in exchange for custody of the Bhaalspawn. Negotiations did not go well, and both sides prepared for the final battles.
The Shining Crusade attacked first. They sent wave after wave of troops including a band of trolls and their handlers, a cadre of wizards, and elite troops including the Soldiers of the Burning Ray to overrun the Coalition camp. The Hero of Baldurs Gate rallied several specialized units, including archers, wizard slayers, and war mages. Together, they held back the invaders while Coalition commanders assembled their respective armies.
As the last of the crusaders fled from the battle at the war camp, the Coalition armies assembled in front of Dragonspear Castle. Thanks to the efforts of Abdel Adrian, the allied forces breached the castles outer wall and poured into its outer ward. The fighting was intense and there were many casualties on both sides. During the battle, Caelars right hand Adras Ashatiel sought revenge for her brothers death by challenging the Hero of Baldurs Gate to single combat.
Caelar Argent attempted to halt the Coalitions advance by making one last appeal that they join her forces. They breached the inner wall in short order and routed the remaining crusaders until they outright fled. As the Waterdhavian guardsmen secured the inner ward, the Flaming Fist soldiers began to garrison the castles inner keep. Only the Shining Lady, her advisor Hephernaan, and a handful of loyal crusaders remained, cornered within the castles cellar.
As Abdel and his companions, along with Bence Duncan and a contingent of Flaming Fist soldiers approached the last remnants of the crusade, the priest Hephernaan revealed his true intent with one final desperate move. He betrayed Caelar and the crusade, drawing enough blood from the Bhaalspawn hero to open the gate to the Nine Hells. Hephernaan sought to free his true master Belhifet, and let loose his fiendish army onto the prime Material plane. In one final drive, Caelar and the few remaining crusaders ventured into Avernus to slay the devil and their former chaplain, and were soon followed by the hero and his fellow adventurers. While the final fate of Caelar was unknown, Hephernaan and Belhifet were thwarted, and the war was put to a decisive end.