The War of The Spider Queen was a series of conflicts that took place in the drow cities of Menzoberranzan, Ched Nasad, Eryndlyn, and Maerimydra and others in the Underdark over 1372 and 1373 DR during the Silence of Lolth.
The drow of the Underdark, highly dependent upon the powerful clerical magic of their dark goddess, were greatly weakened by Lolths failure to answer prayers during her Silence (for reasons then unknown to them).
The other organized races of the Underdark like the duergar sought to exact revenge upon the drow and to usurp their power, began to make threatening moves towards the drow cities. the Scoured Legion of Hellgate Keep, the forces of Kurgoth Hellspawn, and the churches of Kiaransalee and Vhaeraun began to do the same.
Lolths silence threatened to rip apart the very fabric of matriarchal drow society, with females (of whom the greater part were clerics) left magically bereft, and males (many of whom were merchants, warriors, annd wizards) left in a position of power.
The drow of Menzoberranzan, through Triel Baenre, sent a group of powerful adventurers—initially Quenthel Baenre, Pharaun Mizzrym, Ryld Argith, Valas Hune and the draegloth Jeggred Baenre—to discover the cause of Lolths silence (or, as was then suspected, disfavor).
On Eleasias 28 of the , Lolth went silent and stopped granting spells to her clerics. She did not answer prayers or give any signs. Many sacrifices were made in an attempt to atone for whatever misdeeds the priesthood were believed to have performed.
Almost immediately, several noble houses in Maerimydra start slaughtering one another.
Seizing their chance, the Jaezred Chaulssin commenced attacks and schemes to gain power in drow settlements all through the Underdark. In Dusklyngh, Jhachalkyn, and Karsoluthiyl, they would enable the male-led merchant houses to gain influence at the cost of the weakened power of the Matron Mothers. One of their number, Nimor Imphraezl, instigated strife in Menzoberranzan.
On Eleint 23, Kurgoth Hellspawn attacked Maerimydra outright with an army of goblins, ogres and other giants, and even demons. He had the aid of the citys archmage Duneth Wharreil. The drow population was largely killed or enslaved, while refugees fled in small groups into the Deep Wastes. Only House Dhuurniv remained strong, as most of their holdings lay outside the city. Irae Tsarran took over Castle Maerimydra during the chaos. She killed Duneth and conquered Maerimydra while her daughter Dorina took over Szith Morcane to the west. Irae summoned Kiaransalees Undying Temple to the Material Plane and Dorina launched raids on Daggerdale.
In Menzoberranzan, many drow males vanished without explanation. Matron mothers suspected that they must know something about Lolth. Against Triels wishes, on Marpenoth 13, Gromph Baenre ordered Pharaun Mizzrym to investigate. Pharaun recruited Ryld to help. Meanwhile, Gromph sent demonic assassins to kill Quenthel Baenre. Pharaun and Ryld discovered the missing males to be working with an alhoon who planned to cause a slave rebellion in order to weaken the city. They killed the alhoon and the rebellion was crushed mercilessly by drow soldiers on Marpenoth 20.
Afterward, leaving Menzoberranzan on Marpenoth 26, Quenthels company journey to Ched Nasad. There, House Zauvirr captured Quenthel Baenre. As part of a failed coup attempt in Ched Nasad, House Zauvirr hired a duergar mercenary company to attack the city on Uktar 3. However, the Jaezred Chaulssin sold stonefire bombs to the duergar, which burn the calcified webs that held up the buildings and roads of each level of the city. The levels collapsed and Ched Nasad was destroyed. Quenthels company escape through a portal and begin searching for priests of Vhaeraun.
On Uktar 15, Menzoberranzan came under siege from the duergar of Gracklstugh, the Scoured Legion of tanarukks from Hellgate Keep commanded by Kaanyr Vhok, and Menzoberranzans own House Agrach Dyrr. They were covertly supported by the Jaezred Chaulssin.
Quenthels company finally reached the Demonweb Pits on Uktar 16, but were betrayed by their Vhaeraunite guide, Tzirik, who summoned his god to attack the defenseless Lolth. Selvetarm arrived to battle Vhaeraun but both fell off the web and plummeted into the darkness below.
All up, by the close of the year, Ched Nasad was obliterated with its ruins in the grasp of the Jaezred Chaulssin, Eryndlyn had been taken over by the followers of Vhaeraun and Ghaunadaur, Maerimydra was in the grip of the faithful of Kiaransalee, and Menzoberranzan seemed set to follow.
Lolths Silence ended when she was transformed into a greater deity on Ches 28 of the .
Soon after, Vhaeraun-worshiping surface-dwelling drow in the Darkwoods, Velarswood, and Eastern Fringe came under attack from Lolths Lady Penitent.
Meanwhile, in the ruins of Ched Nasad, the Jaezred Chaulssin worked to establish control over what remained.
On Ches 30, the Scoured Legion withdrew their forces from Menzoberranzan, thus lifting the siege.
As of the , Lolth and Eilistraee were playing a game of sava of divine proportions, with the stakes being the fate of the drow and their own existence. Vhaerauns followers used Elven High Magic to open a portal to Eilistraees realm that Vhaeraun used to effort to slay his sister. But he failed, as Eilistraee slew Vhaeraun instead and absorbed his portfolio.
As a result, the Church of Eilistraee absorbed the Church of Vhaeraun and the Church of Lolth absorbed the Church of Selvetarm.
Kiaransalee foolishly joined in the game of sava and in the , her followers tried to alter the Underdarks natural faerzress magic to affect the ability of drow to use teleportation or divination magic. In retribution, Eilistraees followers assault the Acropolis of Thanatos in Velddrinnsshar under the Galena Mountains and killed Kiaransalees high priestesses, the Crones. Meanwhile, other followers, Qarlynd Melarn and his apprentices, invoke Elven High Magic using use six kiira discovered in the ruins of Miyeritar to remove all mention of Kiaransalees name from Toril. Without worshipers, she faded from existence.
The , saw Eilistraee and her chosen Qilué Veladorn killed by the Lady Penitent at the urging of Lolths champion Wendonai. However, roughly 20% of all drow were redeemed in the eyes of the Seldarine and their divine curse was lifted, restoring to them their lighter skin and normal elven temperament.
Finally, that same year, Lolth attempted to destroy her last rival in the Dark Seldarine, Ghaunadaur. However, the Lord of Slime turned out to be proved to be much older and more powerful than Lolth had expected. Ghaunadaur left the Demonweb and created his new divine realm in the Deep Caverns, thus ending the War of the Spider Queen.
During the conflicts, the vengeful clerics eradicated spiders and monstrous spiders in drow cities. Those of Kiaransalee even paid a bounty for spider legs. The Kiaransaleens even raised Lolths slain sacred spiders as undead creatures known as husk vermin and dispatched them against the still-faithful priestesses of Lolth. They also persuaded the mutant shunned rejected by Lolth to join them, but ultimately betrayed them.