The Weeping War was a fierce conflict that culminated on 15 Flamerule, 714 DR, in which the AkhVelahr (the army of Cormanthor) were defeated by the invading demonic forces of the Army of Darkness. Defeat led to the fall of the predominantly elven city of Myth Drannor, at the time the greatest and most powerful bastion of civilization and a beacon of interracial harmony.
The exact power responsible for the original demonic summoning is unknown, but it is believed to have been a flind or orc shaman, or a human archmage. This unknown individual summoned yugoloths to raid the lands of the Dragonreach, but Aulmpiter, Gaulguth and Malimshaer broke free of their masters control and rounded up huge numbers of goblinkin in the surrounding area.
Word of this large army reached Captain  Fflar of Myth Drannor, who set a watchpost north of the city at Helmgrove, appointing the company named the Shield of Myth Drannor to it. The entire company was destroyed by the demonic forces.
A second pre-battle stand was made at Burnt Ridge, where hundreds of the defending wizards were killed.
Fflar set about evacuating the city of all non-combatants, but this began too late and the evacuation continued even as the battle began.
The siege of Myth Drannor by the Army of Darkness was named the Siege of Shadow and began on 21 Kythorn, 714 DR. The forward army and the best wizards have been defeated by this point, and only three thousand defenders remain.
Thousands of the Army of Darkness were slain in the battle itself, but they were far too numerous to be stopped by the defenders. They overran the city, burning and pillaging it entirely. Much destruction was caused when wizard towers, still occupied by wizards who had refused to leave, were blown apart, spreading much devastation and unpredictable magic across the city.
At the climax of the battle, Aulmpiter called Fflar forward and the two engaged in one-on-one combat that became known as the Banes Duel. Both Fflar and Aulmpiter were slain when a magical blast engulfed them. Their bodies were never recovered,
Only two hundred elves and allies out of the 3000 who remained behind to defend the city escaped.
CategoryBattles
CategoryEvents in Cormanthor
CategoryHistory
CategoryEvents in North Faerûn
CategoryEvents in Faerûn
CategoryEvents on Toril
lxiwt7qi9pifhvwgskrvbjdsaf1fhd9