human
Lord Adreum VI, also remembered as the The Coward Lord of Last, was the last member of the Adreum family of Port Llast who perished in the late 1000s DR and continued to exist as a restless tortured ghost into the late 14 century DR.
In his undead state, Lord Adreum VI appeared as a translucent ghostly visage that glowed with sinister green radiance. He wore ancient-looking plate armor and a thick beard and mustache. Adreums face was frozen in a melancholic expression.
Lord Adreum VI faced the grave danger of an encroaching orc horde sometime around the late 1000s DR. Lord Adreum ordered Last Port to be abandoned. In fear of the unbeatable horde, Adreum fled with his family, leaving his captain to organize the evacuation. The predictions were wrong, and Last Port was besieged before the evacuation was completed while Lord Adreum was away. He returned to the city ablaze, and many of its defenders and commoners – were slaughtered. Survivors of the siege became a furious mob who blamed Lord Adreum for the deaths of their friends and family. The mob murdered the entire Adreum line.
Since then, Lord Adreum VI has been known as The Coward Lord of Last. The town was renamed from Last Port to Port Llast, and the last lording family was remembered mainly for the "Adreum Curse."
Lord Adreum VI was buried in Gothaladreum, a cemetery on the edge of the Neverwinter Wood, long abandoned and ruined by the late 14 century DR. His grave stood just to the east of the cemeterys entrance, decorated with a statue of a winged angelic being. However, despite being interred, Lord Adreum VI did not find peace in death. His oath to protect Port Llast was unfulfilled, and for the centuries that followed, when the town was in danger, Adreum rose from his ancient grave.
In the years that followed the Shadow War of the , Port Llasts neighbor – the city of Luskan saw an opportunity in a weakened state of Neverwinter and its economy still recovering from the two recent wars. Luskan sent a force to claim the port city. This prompted the undead of Gothaladreum to rise and walk the streets of Port Llast every night.
When a band of adventurers became involved with the invasion and the walking dead, they ventured into Gothaladreum and converted with the ancient restless Lord. History books did not record how the conflict was resolved. Some claimed that the adventurers sided with Luskan and destroyed the undead, while others said the heroes asked Lord Adreum VI to fulfill his oath to defend Port Llast from the Luskanite invaders. However, the walking dead of Gothaladreum were risen by necromancer named Nya, who were disturbing the burial sites to drive the Luskanites out. In order to get Lord Adreum VI and his undead servants help, the adventurers needed to kill the necromancer or convincer her to step down.