Adrik Commorand was a sorcerous mercenary in the late 14 century DR operating in the Unapproachable East.
Adrik argued constantly with Erik about magic. Even without his brother, he was very talkative and curious, excited about ancient magic and about almost any topic. He was learned on matters of extradimensional spaces.
He was brave enough to linger even after the defeat of a force he participated in, and his curiosity drew him to overstay his commission with Raidon in order to visit Sildëyuir.
Even in near-death, he could not tamp down on his enthusiasm for different topics.
Adrik could cast a spell to null an enemy red wizards flight. He could also throw fireballs, cone of cold, and a spell similar to light.
Adrik was a mercenary sorcerer and adventuring seeker of magical lore, plundering tombs, studying esoteric topics, and witnessing magic far and wide.
Adrik and his brother mostly traveled together.
Adrik became an adventurer after his childhood love, Chelsea, died from a disease.
He formed part of a caravans guard in winter of , on the path from Telflamm to Emmech. While part of that caravan, he helped repel a Red Wizard patrol.
After the caravan reached Emmech, he took a commission with Raidon Kane, a half-elf monk and his fellow guard in the caravan. Though he did not have much gold, the monk had enough to afford one brother alone for two tendays Adrik was also interested in visiting the Yuirwood. His brother Erik remained in Emmech, looking for a ship to take the two brothers across the Sea of Fallen Stars.
Adrik and Raidon joined the force in Relkaths foot going into the offensive against Stardeep. Even though the force was defeated, the two of them lingered.
When they came across Moonveil Citadel, they were attacked by a summoned fire elemental and its nilshai masters. He was poisoned Kiril took them to visit the Edgewarden in order to find healing. Unfortunately, the edgewarden could only slow the poison down, not stop it. He died of his wounds not long after.