| refs5e         = 
Adrielle was a devoted cleric of Helm and a member of the Anti-Hag Support Group of Baldurs Gate in the late 15 century DR.
Adrielle was a young human woman with light skin, light brown eyes, and light brown hair. She wore a splint mail adorned with a paladins tabard.
She owned a fey semblance amulet. Adrielle also kept a diary written in elegant script, with each page decorated by a hand-drawn gauntlet with a watchful eye in its center.
As a cleric of Helm, Adrielle could cast spells from the war domain. She could channel the divinity of her faith to land guided strikes that were hard to miss their mark and receive the war gods blessing that guided her allies attacks toward their targets. She was trained in wielding a mace and a shield and was a tenacious fighter.
At some point before the , Adrielle encountered an annis. That fateful meeting left her broken, desperate, a coward, and a drunkard. When Adrielle came to Baldurs Gate, she thought herself not worthy of Helms favor. Eventually, however, the cleric met other victims of hags, including Jatlo, Kled, and, possibly, were they to survive their encounters with Auntie Ethel, Hydrangea Wubb, Mayrina, and her zombified husband Connor Vinderblad. This group, which later became known as the Anti-Hag Support Group, helped Adrielle remember the tenets of her fate, take on the priests mantle again, and saved her life. In return, she became the groups protector and healer.
Soon after, the green hag Auntie Ethel discovered the group that worked actively to find a way to thwart evil hag schemes and save girls consumed by the creatures. It was revealed, to Adrielles shock, that Jatlo was not a dragonborn survivor but a shapeshifted red cap servant of the green hag. Secretly, Jatlo had smuggled an effigy into the Anti-Hag Support Groups hideout, old Garlows home in the Lower City. That effigy affected Mayrina, turning her into a sheep. Adrielle swore to protect the group and her friends and thought this betrayal was a great failure. She decided that if harm came to Mayrina and she would perish, Adrielle would soon follow her friend into the afterlife.