Adyan Mercatio was the scion of the noble House Mercatio of Arrabar in the mid-to-late 14 century DR.
As an adult, Adyan had a distinct scar, a diagonal slash from the middle of his chin to the left side of the jaw.
Adyan Mercatio spoke with a lazy drawl.
Adyan was childhood friends with two other noble family scions of Arrabar, Vambran Matrell of House Matrell and Horial Rohden of House Rohden.
In Flamerule of the , during the Night of Ghosts festival hosted by Eles Wianar, the Lord of Arrabar. Adyan Mercatio, along with his two friends Vambran and Horial were in attendance. The trio were playing around with a bejeweled crossbow, gifted to young Vambran by his uncle Kovrim Matrell. Shooting plantains off a tree, Vambran unleashed a stray bolt that lodged itself in a strangers chest, killing him. The victim was Rodolpho Wianar, a cousin of the Lord of Arrabar. Xaphira Matrell and her brother Dregaul Matrell knew that this accidental murder meant death for Vambran and ruin for House Matrell. Desperate to see her nephew unharmed, Xaphira took the blame. She masqueraded as an assassin and fled Arrabar, likely to never be able to return again.
By the , Adyan Mercatio, and Horial Rohden have joined the elite Waukeenar militaristic organization - The Order of the Sapphire Crescent, following Vambran Matrells lead. Among the three friends, Vambran held the highest rank of the lieutenant. They traveled wide and far across the Sea of Fallen Stars aboard the Ladys Favor.
On Tarsakh 10 of 1373 DR, the Ladys Favor returned to Arrabar bearing a bounty of imported goods from Sembia. Soon after arrival, Horials friend and lieutenant Vambran Matrell witnessed a murder of a commoner and committed to investigating the injustice. The investigation led Vambran to uncover a sinister conspiracy, plan to profit from a war of which young commoner woman was a casualty. On Tarsakh 11, Horial, Adyan Mercatio, and Vambran met up for a drink at the Crying Claw tavern, where the scion of House Matrell asked his two friends to aid the investigation. Vambran wanted to track the murderer using his magic and a jeweled dagger that the culprit stole from Emriana Matrell. Horial and Adyan agreed and followed Vambran into a warehouse in Arrabars Warehouse District. They discovered the killers body, but it was a trap. The cabal left a deadly leechwalker to dispose of the nobleman interloper. The trio battled the creature. Horial only wielded a shortsword and stood no chance against the lumbering blood-hungry thing. The leechwalker quickly embraced and incapacitated Adyan while Horial was dispatched with a crushing blow. Miraculously, all three survived the assassination attempt thanks to Vambrans healing magics and a mysterious red-clad figure that emptied a barrel of salt on the beast.
Horial and Adyan recovered via the Temple of Waukeens clerics healing spells and on Tarsakh 13 were ordered to depart Arrabar on a mission, secretly organized by the Grand Trabbar Lavant, in order to remove Vambran from his investigation and from the city. Horial and Adyan decided to cover for their friend, delaying the departure as he attended his sisters sixteenth birthday celebration. As the noble party dissolved into chaos following the revelation that Vambrans own family was involved with the cabal, Horial, Adyan, and a squad of Sapphire Crescents, were dispatched by the temple to return the missing lieutenant to his duty. The Crescents got themselves involved in opposing the cabal that took Vambrans family members hostages and eventually confronted Denrick Pharaboldi and Evester Matrell, leading to the villains deaths.