Aeroth was a leader of the Cult of the Dragon based out of Karthaut Lighthouse, and the Wearer of Purple for his cell during the late 14 century DR.
Spartan and taciturn, Aeroth was a steadfast believer in the Cults teachings, and considered that the conversion of dragons into dracoliches would fulfill some great prophecy. He also viewed Reveilaein Brants transformation into a Kaemundar as auspicious, likely to reinvigorate the Cult, and lead them to further greatness.
The green dragon wyrmling Eldrisithain was Aeroths familiar.
Before becoming the leader of the cults cell in Karthaut Lighthouse, Aeroth was a member of a cell in Vaasa that was disrupted by a group of paladins, causing him to flee, resurfacing at a later date in another cell, within Cormyr. After that cell failed because of divided loyalties, Aeroth joined with Reveilaein, becoming the Wearer of Purple for his new cell. The cell moved to the Dragon Coast, where after capturing a lighthouse, they sought to tempt lesser dragons into becoming dracoliches. About a month after they began operations, Teziir may have sent adventurers to check up on the lighthouse workers.
Aeroth often prepared spells such as slay living, bestow curse, enervation, fear, animate dead, fireball, fly, vampiric touch, blindness/deafness, death knell, ghoul touch, scorching ray, spectral hand, expeditious retreat, magic missile, ray of enfeeblement, shield, detect magic, mage hand, light, touch of fatigue. Of those, slay living, animate dead and death knell he knew only because as a Wearer of Purple he had appropriated the ability to learn spells from the death domain. His spellbook also held permanency, teleport, dimension door, ice storm, lightning bolt, water breathing, continual flame, mirror image, identify, alarm, and comprehend languages.
He could both brew potions and craft miscellaneous magical trinkets. He had an elaborate focus on the school of necromancy, though he wasnt a specialist wizard.
Aeroth was in possession of a ring of protection, a cloak of resistance, a headband of intellect, a wand of mirror image, and a scroll of invisibility sphere.