Ahghairon (), born Ahghairon Belnoth Undrur, and the first Open Lord of Waterdeep. He created the Lords of Waterdeep, the system by which Waterdeep had been ruled ever since, except for a six-year period immediately following his death. 
Ahghairon was known by several names during his youth, but went by only his first name during his time in Waterdeep.
Ahghairon was born on Midsummers Night, in the .
The Second Trollwar broke out in 940 DR, as trolls were pushed down into the area later known as the Trollmoors by orc uprisings further north. After a decade of battles, a young Ahghairon distinguished himself, using his magic to turn the war against the trolls. First, the Waterdhavian defenders drove the trolls back from their walls. The human realms then united under Ahghairon, War Captain Aeroth of Silverymoon, and Samular Caradoon of Tyr, and together they eradicated trolls across the Evermoors, with war finally coming to an end in 952 DR.
At some point during the 940s DR, Aghairon was in Waterdeep, at the time called Nimoars Hold. Fires set to hold of the trolls threatened to destroy a large part of the town, so Aghairon asked adventurers to find and bring him Halasters wards to bolster a ritual that would allow him to stop the fires. (More info about this adventure can be found in Hero of the Troll Wars)
A third Trollwar almost took place in 963 DR, when the traitors Aviss and Fellandar led an army of trolls out of the Mere of Dead Men against the city. They knew well the citys defenses, and Castle Waterdeep had only just begun construction. But Ahghairon and a band of wizards hurled Aviss and Fellandar into an extra-dimensional prison, thwarting the attack. The comic "Summer in the City" actually refers to "great Aglairon", but by the context it seems clear this is meant to be Ahghairon.
At this time, Waterdeep was ruled by the Warlord Rhaulor, who wanted to use the citys power and wealth to create an empire spanning northwest Faerûn. Ahghairon strongly disagreed with this, and when he voiced his concerns, Rhaulor attacked him. Ahghairon  used his magic to turn Rhaulors sword into a snake, which bit and poisoned him. Rhaulor died and Ahghairon assumed control of Waterdeep, proclaiming himself the first Open Lord, and establishing a form of government involving Masked Lords, whose identities would remain private.
In 1007 DR, Ahghairon constructed his wizard tower, but positioned it outside the walls of Waterdeep (which since expanded). At the same time, he imposed magical barriers on Halasters Hold, which prevented the possibility of any dangers escaping into the city. He created a magical axe named Azuredge in 1026 DR.
Ahghairon used potions of longevity to remain in prime physical form even though he was growing old by human standards. Eventually, his health failed in 1256 DR, and he died and was buried in his tower in Waterdeep. The tower was sealed off and protected by magic, and it was believed that his resting place remained undisturbed ever since.