Alaric Hembreon was a Tethyrian noble and member of the Knights of the Shield in 1370 DR.
Alaric had blue eyes. His beard and hair were kept in meticulous order. He had a firm voice. In his old age, his hair had whitened, and he was stooped shorter. He often blinked.
He often wore a simple deep blue gown with a matching hat.
As a duke, blue and white were his official colors.
During his time as a citizen of Zazesspur, he lived in a medium-sized palace sitting to the east of the Palace of Governance. It has simple, white walls and a gray-slate roof with a central courtyard decorated with an intimate, green garden with a water fountain.
As Lord Royal Chancellor of Tethyr, Duke Hembreon also had a seat on Queen Zaranda Rhindauns Royal Privy Council.
In his role with the revival of the Knights, he tried to reform the organization in line with their past role as spies for the Crown of Tethyr, to the dismay of his fellow Knights.
Hembreon was the father of at least a couple children, but only his daughter Tatrina survived. He loved her dearly, but has issues disciplining her.
Hembreon fought in the Battle of Nightflames with Ellem Sunspear. Something happened in that battle that started a feud between the two men. While both served in the government of Tethyr in the late 14 century and while Hembreon respected the political skills and honor of Sunspear, the two men could not be in the same room together without growing angry.
While a city counselor of Zazesspur, Lord Hembreon employed several footmen, one of whom was named Strakes.
Alaric spent all his life in Tethyrian politics, being the heir of the Draknor duchy and a member of the Knights of the Shield by family connections.
In his youth, he was the standard bearer of Prince Rythan at the disastrous Battle of Nightflames. Alaric managed to take the dead body of the prince back home, whom he considered the epitome of all the virtues of a true king.
In the , Hembreon served as one of King Alemander IVs seven primary councilors. He was seen as a loyal follower of the king and as a man of great honor, yet on Eleasis 27, fifteen days before the Ten Black Days of Eleint, Duke Hembreon was exiled from Tethyr on trumped-up charges, most likely seeded by Prince Alemander V.
Two years later, in the , the false charges were denounced, and Alaric came back in his country to help reunify the kingdom, becoming a member of the council in Zazesspur.
Before the Days of Terror, when Countess Zaranda Stars trade goods were impounded by the civic guard, she attempted to speed the processing of her case by visiting the duke, but he refused to give her any special treatment, clearly unimpressed with the noble title that she had purchased for herself.
After the Days of Terror, in the , when Zaranda Star and her companions defeated the forces of evil in the city, his opinion of her improved, and Duke Hembreon spent the months of Mirtul and Kythorn in council with Zaranda and Lords Hhune and Faunce to determine how to raise support for her ascension to the throne. Alaric was the first noble to submit to the former adventuress, whom Alaric came to see as a fellow spirit of Rythan.
Hembreon fought in the Reclamation Army with Queen Zaranda as one of her commanders in the First Siege of Myratma. He was the only commander not a member of the Order of the Silver Chalice to survive that disastrous battle and avoid capture from the forces of Yusuf Jhannivvar.
After the victory of Zaranda Star and Haedrak Rhindaun III in the Second Siege of Myratma, Hembreon was permitted by the queen to be the duke of the Golden Marches, in the hope of eradicating the blight of the Duchy of Dusk. He was also nominated as Lord Royal Chancellor of Tethyr.