Alastar Bol () was the highest-ranked member of the Order of the Gauntlet stationed at Port Nyanzaru in Chult during the late 15 century DR, He was known as the Fat Knight and he also styled himself "the Scourge of the Unliving in Chult".
Alastar wore fine clothes and was balding. While in Chult, Alastar had gained a significant amount of weight and a tan. He also sweated profusely. 
He had once been a cleric of Waukeen
Alastar was very intelligent and wise. He frequently gave advice and expected it to be followed, else he grew irritated.
He was ill-suited to the Chultan climate and hated his posting there, which he found to be hot and boring, and so he often complained and wanted to receive a promotion with a posting to a different location. He had a habit of over-eating, especially out of boredom. He enjoyed sweets, and would use them instead of miniatures when planning tactics on his maps.
Alastar had been sent to Port Nyanzaru by the Order of the Gauntlet but he rarely left his luxurious and well-guarded villa in the Market Ward, which was close to the Hall of Gold at the top of Mount Sibasa, overlooking the fish market to the southwest. He was known to host lavish feasts. 
Virtually everything he did was with the hope that it would make a good enough impression on his superiors to allow him to leave Chult. To aid in the fight against the undead that rampaged through the jungle, we was known to distribute holy water to Order agents heading into the jungle.
He was known to bet on dinosaur races in Port Nyanzaru, and his favorite racer was Mountain Thunder. On especially hot days, he did not bother to attend races in person, and instead sent his agents to place bets on his behalf.
Alastor had a number of subordinates, which included Derio, Radwan Goldlust, and Gordo the Just.
He occasionally cooperated with representatives from other factions within Port Nyanzaru, such as when several of them elected to hire the mercenary Pozzanna Lordeaux to secure a stronghold within the Chultan jungle or when they rallied behind Hawkdriver Mazugulak to drive back an undead attack on the city. 
He was an ally to the merchant princes, notably Ekene-Afa and Kwayothé.
Alastar was sent to Chult not by his own request, but by the machinations of one of his enemies within the Order of the Gauntlet. As of the events of the death curse around , he was in his late 30s, had retired from the church of Waukeen, and had already witnessed the Orders efforts to establish itself in Chult flounder, first at Camp Righteous and increasingly at Camp Vengeance. During this time, he sent Derio to investigate disappearances in the Old City connected to Viplos necromantic scheming while he was under the power of a piece of the Dreamers Amulet.
When Port Nyanzaru came under attack by the fiendish forces of Idrianne Smoke, Alastar saw the crisis as yet another opportunity to prove his worthiness of being transferred somewhere cooler than Chult. The merchant prince Kwayothé enlisted his and the Orders assistance during the siege.
Following the end of the death curse, Alastar brought together several factions within Port Nyanzaru in order to send adventurers to investigate undead forces stemming from the ancient city of Matolo.
After someone used magic to impersonate him and gain access to Order resources, Alastar sought agents who could help unmask whoever it had been. Given the culprits apparent familiarity with the Orders inner workings, he suspected it to be a traitor within his faction.