Aldaron the Loremaster was a half-elf wizard living in Veltalar in 1479 DR.The date for all Year 1 RPGA sanctioned adventures is considered to be 1479 DR for the purposes of this wiki.
Aldaron was gentle and soft spoken man who could be a bit absent minded at times. But whenever he was excited about a subject he took on a more clear, forceful and intimidating presence. He had a marked interest in history and scholarly pursuits over adventure.
Aldaron generally wore comfortable, high-quality robes. He also owned a collection of items related to the Feywild.
In 1479 DR, a middle-aged Aldaron acquired a copy of the legendary Tome of Twilight Boughs from an antiquities dealer. Over the course of a month he worked to break through some of the protective magic that was encrypting the tome and managed to have some success with translating its contents, though there were some things that did not make sense to him. With one of his discoveries being a ritual that allowed the user to imbue themselves with power from the Yuir gods. Wanting to verify his translation, he sent out an open request to adventurers to look for proof within a set of ancient ruins in the Yuirwood.
One day while in the midst of his research he and his estate were transported into the Feywild by means of a specialized ritual. He was then assaulted by a group of eladrin, calling themselves the Cult of Voldini, who demanded he hand over the Tome of Twilight Boughs. He attempted to fight them off and warn them of the danger of the tomes ritual, but they eventually overpowered him. They left him injured under a pile of collapsed shelves and books as they made a hasty retreat, fearing that they had drawn unwanted attention, and summoned their fey allies to finish off any loose ends.
When Aldaron came through he explained his situation to some adventurers, who had arrived from his open request and defeated the fey.
While the adventurers were gone he continued his research into the ritual that he had translated from the tome. During that time he discovered that unlike most rituals, this one lacked basic actions or symbols to protect one from ambient magical energy, instead seemingly channeling it. Once the adventurers returned he thanked and paid them for their services, then informed the authorities of what had transpired. He also offered to assist the adventurers in the future if they ever needed to draw upon his expertise in ancient history and the Feywild.
As he continued his research into both the Tome of Twilight Boughs and the Cult of Voldini, he came to find that their leader could potentially be an eladrin witch by the name of Voldini. He eventually tracked the whereabouts of this individual to the city of Relkaths Foot.