| refs4e         = 
Amber Gristle OMaul, known better as Ambergris, was a dwarf cleric of Dumathoin
Ambergris was a female dwarf convert to the Shadowfell, part shade but not wholly one. Ambergris did not look like a Shadovar, but appeared more like the offspring of a duergar and a Delzoun dwarf. Ambergris had long black hair that was partially braided and a thick, crooked nose.
Ambergris tried not to kill when possible, but she was not reluctant to kill when needed. She disposed of a number of her Cavus Dun cohorts, but she saved Afafrenfere, claiming she minded his company the least.
Despite having been kicked out of Citadel Adbar, Ambergris was nonetheless loyal to her dwarven heritage. She refused to allow anyone to ransack and steal from Gauntlgrym, and when she heard that the Netherese were fighting against Drizzt DoUrden, she decided to help him on behalf of King Bruenor Battlehammer, "like any good dwarf [would]."
Ambergris carried a mace, nearly  in length, with a core of polished hardwood and black leather handle, which she called Skullbreaker, After the attack in Port Llast, the mace fell into the hands of the drider Yerrininae but she was later able to retrieve it after being rescued by Drizzt and Artemis Entreri.
Ambergris also possessed a enchanted black pearl necklace that could help disguise both herself and her companions. Ambergris also carried a small, wooden jug, when opened, could produce a geyser of water.
Ambergris and Afafrenfere appeared to become close friends during and after their time working for Cavus Dun. Ambergris believed that Afafrenfere didnt belong with the other Shadovar and that the only reason he entered or stayed in the Shadowfell was because he fell in love with Parbid. She seemed quite fond of him. During their travels with Drizzt, the two often set up fights in bars in order to make a little money on the side. After their rescue from Gauntlgrym, they traveled to Damara together and eventually rejoined Jarlaxle.
Amber Gristle OMaul was a member of the OMaul clan in Citadel Adbar. After an unnamed crime, Ambergris was sent by the judges in Citadel Adbar to spy in the Shadowfell. It was either that or be set to work for 20 years as penance.
Ambergris skill, both with her mace and as a cleric, was the reason why Cavus Dun accepted her into their ranks and sponsored her for admission into the Empire of Nethril. She had spent a little over a year in the Shadowfell before she was sent to aid the Netherese in Neverwinter, along with other members of Cavus Dun. In order to keep Afafrenfere loyal, she pretended to cast a geas on him.
Ambergris and Afafrenfere then traveled for a time with Drizzt and his companions, which included Artemis Entreri, Dahlia Sinfelle, and later Effron. Their adventures included time in Port Llast. When the groups attempt to rescue Guenhwyvar from the grasp of Draygo Quick in the Shadowfell failed, Ambergris fled, leaving her companions behind. She was later contacted by Jarlaxle and provided him information that allowed those companions to be rescued. Reunited, they continued to travel together, finding themselves in Icewind Dale where they spent a night on the edge of Iruladoon that lasted eighteen years (until 1484 DR). Afterwards, Drizzt opted to stay in Icewind Dale, but Ambergris left the Dale with Entreri, Dahlia, Afafrenfere, and Effron.
Not long afterwards, Ambergris and her companions were attacked in Port Llast by a drow company led by Tiago Baenre. Ambergris was captured and forced to work as a slave in the Gauntlgrym mines belonging to QXorlarrin. She was rescued by Drizzt DoUrden and the reborn Companions of the Hall and reunited with Afafrenfere, with whom she began journeying to the Monastery of the Yellow Rose in Damara.
Never intending to stay at the monastery for long, Ambergris readily joined Jarlaxle in his attempt to interfere in the events in Luruar during the Darkening. Afafrenfere joined them, his penance to his order requiring him to be Grandmaster Kanes eyes in the North for a time.