Amos was a warlock and adventurer that lived in Icewind Dale during the late 15 century DR. He dedicated himself to reversing the curse of the Everlasting Rime that plagued his homelands for over two years.
Amos was a pragmatist who did whatever he could to help others survive. He believed his actions to ultimately be altruistic, and that―despite the cost in the short term―the good he accomplished would outweigh whatever harm was caused along the way. Amos was unfortunately not above letting some suffer in order for him to accomplish those greater goals.
His determinism and ultimate deceitfulness was hidden under an affable persona and attractive charm. Amos sarcastic wit never left him, even when he faced the darkest of odds.
He seemed to resent people that came from lives of comfort and chose to "play" at adventuring.
While it was known that Amos had an otherworldly patron as a source of his warlock powers, it was unknown who that entity was, or where their origin lay.
Amos possessed meager adventuring gear, including a single short sword, but boasted a beauteous cloak of raven feathers.
While they could not really be called friends, Amos formed a genuine connection with the halfling druid Belvyre. The two shared the same goal of saving Icewind Dale by tapping into magic of the world, albeit by entirely different means.
Sometime during or after the , the goddess Auril cursed Icewind Dale with everlasting darkness, freezing over the already bleak landscape and killing off much of the lands plantlife. Amos came to learn about an ancient Netherese city buried deep beneath the Spine of the World, that house incredible magical power, seemingly enough to reverse Aurils curse.
thumb|right|250px|Amos, meeting his future companions for the first time.
Amos joined forces with the duergar warlord Xardorok Sunblight, who was raising an army to carry out the will of a sentient, primordial shard. As part of his efforts to aid the "Boss" as he called Xardorok, Amos worked with miners to extract chardalyn from deposits in Icewind Dale.
While transporting his mining crew, along with some chardalyn, across the Icewind Dale, Amos crashed his dogsled in the snowy wastes. He was rescued by a Runa, a Reghedmen barbarian of the Tribe of the Tiger. Runa then saved Amos again, when she and the wilderness guide Saarvin slew a massive remorhaz that descended upon Amos crashed caravan. With Amos injured, the trio traveled to Good Mead where they could all recover.
thumb|left|250px|Amos, getting a talking to by Patience.
It was in Good Mead that Amos was introduced to Belvyre, a young but powerful druid, and his loyal bodyguard Patience. It was revealed that Belvyre had been working on ways to restore crops in Icewind Dale to save the people of Ten Towns and had a powerful, heirloom frostbrand walking staff in his possession. Amos sparked Belvyres sense of wonder and magic, by sharing with the group the tale of the ancient city lost deep beneath Icewind Dale, one with powerful magic that could further expand his experiments in crop preservation.
The group of five companions set out across the frozen expanse of the Dale, and were force to take shelter from a snowstorm in a lone cave. Unfortunately, their refuge was attacked by frost giant skeletons. Runa and Saarvin led in the initial attack against the undead giants, and Patience was forced to leave Belvyres side to join the battle. Amos swore to protect Belvyre, but had another plan in mind. When the right time arose, Amos abducted Belvyre, and used the halflings frostbrand to blast their companions off the snowy cliffside. With Belvyre in town, Amos set out to Xardorok Sunblights underground, chardalyn mining operation.
thumb|right|250px|Amos final moments, saving Belvyres life.
During their trek, Amos explained to Belvyre how the food he could grow would better serve Icewind Dale. He wanted the halfling to feed Sunblights burgeoning duergar army, rather than the residents of the Ten Towns.
Amos was disheartened by his boss decision to allow his own people to die. Belvyre appealed to Amos compassion and convinced him to help save the abandoned duergar before it was too late. The duos former companions caught up to them, and immediately attacked Amos for his betrayal. Belvyre intervened on Amos behalf and made them spare his life. Unfortunately for everyone, the earth shook beneath then and lava spewed forth.