Queen Anais  of Tethyr ruled over the kingdom from the Court of the Crimson Leaf, during the late 15 century DR,
Anais was of the Rhindaun Dynasty. She was the granddaughter of Reinhold. 
The Queen had a half-sister Evonne Linden, who had two children Anais nephew Teague and her niece Ysabel. Following Evonnes death, Anais adopted Ysabel as her own and named the young child her heir.
Anais reigned from the palace of Faerntarn in the capital city of Darromar. In the capital she was protected by soldiers belonging to the Order of the Tempest Stahl.
She ruled through her dukes, counts, and, more visibly, her sheriffs, whom she appointed directly to maintain law and order. Anais herself handled affairs of state and maintained a sizeable military in Darromar. She was advised by the Royal Council, which included Ysabel Linden.
Anais ascended as Queen of Tethyr in the , a few months after the death of her sister Evonnes husband Garion Linden. She did not have an easy beginning to her reign as monarch however. Within the first year of her rule, Evonne tried to take the throne for hew own. The sisters made amends and continued on in relative peace with one another for a time. 
Tragedy struck Tethyr the following year. Anais nephew and many scores of innocents were slaughtered in the Winter Palace by elves of the Wealdath, a tragedy that came to be known as the Childrens Massacre. Evonnes daughter Ysabel as one of only three survivors. Queen Anais and Evonne managed to avoid the massacre, as their retinue was waylaid in Celleu due to an unnatural fog that inhibited travel. While both sisters avoid the mass-killing, Evonne was not as fortunate as her sister and was slain by assassins that very night.
One of the massacres other survivors, Declan Cardew the so-called "Hero of the Realm", earned the queens good graces by "saving" her niece Ysabel.
Anais own grandfather, Reinhold, blamed her for the catastrophe and created the Branch of Linden, a political faction that overthrow the queen and install Ysabel Linden on the throne. After several skirmishes between the queens army and the Branch of Linden, with the last and worst on the Ebenspy Plateau, the rebels retreated into Ebenspy Keep. After several days of siege, half of them died with a coughing sickness and the queens soldiers broke the siege and seized the castle, defeating the Branch of Linden. The leaders were hanged before the High Palace at Darromar.
Yet the organization survived and was resurgent in the .―who had recently come of age―and Tresco Manyard would act as the regent behind the veil. Their plot was ultimately unsuccessful however. Evonne Linden had managed to survive the Childrens Massacre through the use of horrifying blood magic, and the body of an innocent child.
Queen Anais remained in power throughout the 1480s, well into the .