Angar "Steeleye" Axeson was a dwarf warrior and a blacksmith owner of Steeleyes Armory and Smithy in Mosstone.
Angar was an old but powerful dwarf veteran who was scarred in the Reclamation Wars. He had only one functioning eye, the left one, and the right one was a polished steel prosthetic which granted the dwarf his "Steeleye" nickname. Angar considered his metal eye a war trophy but, given cause, would gladly prefer to have his real eye instead.
Angar "Steeleye" Axeson was a hardworking man of impeccable work ethic who loved his craft. He was known for being a slow worker because of the quality and effort he put into his creations. He often worked through days and nights to deliver the item in time for adventurers departing into danger.
He often grumpily complained about his clients mistreated items of great craftsmanship by damaging it in battle, but he gladly took on the work. However, Angar could not tolerate customers trying to force or convince him to work on the new project before finishing the ongoing one. If they continuously insisted, it turned the dwarf veteran openly hostile.
Angars store, Steeleyes Armory, and Smithy charged about a fifth more than other blacksmiths in the region but it wealth with supreme quality products. Angars items were in high demand among Tethyrian nobles who paid him handsomely and allowed old "Steeleye" to work on their projects leisurely, sometimes in the course of a year.
Angar "Steeleye" Axeson was a veteran fighter and a blacksmith for the first rank. He offered commission, repairs, and alteration work. His skill level allowed him to replicate the quality smithing of any master, including ancient elven weapons and armor.
Angar Axesons participated in the Reclamation Wars of Tethyr in the mid-14 century DR.
One of the local stories about Angar was recorded by Volothamp Geddarm in one of his books. It told a story about a nobleman who commissioned a blade from "Steeleye" but died of natural causes waiting for the work to be complete. The dwarf walked into the funeral uninvited and, without saying a word, handed three swords of exquisite quality to the mans three sons and a dagger to the widow and refused to take payment.
His famous work gained some popularity over the years among adventurers who treated the smith with awe appropriate for a monarch.