Lord Protector Anivar Daoran was a royal member of House Daoran and the monarch of Phlan for a time during the late 15 century DR. He ruled the city from the Cinnabar Throne of Valjevo Castle.
Lord Anivar was a self-centered and paranoid man who cared more about holding onto his power than the lives and well-being of his subjects. He exhibited the overwhelming sense of of entitlement that came with years of over-indulgence and no development of personal virtues such as wit or bravery in the face of danger. 
He was considered to be wholly ineffectual as a ruler, deferring responsibilities of governance to the heads of Phlans noble families. 
During his reign, Anivar Daoran had embarked upon various reconstruction projects throughout the cities with little foresight for their cost or time of completion.
In contrast to Anivars abhorrent personality, the dynasty of House Daoran was formed by daring conquest. His grandfather Cvaal Daoran stood defiant against the Shadovar of Netheril in the 1380s DR and claimed Phlan in his familys name.
He was served dutifully by the Lords Seneschal Rolf, the Sage of Mantors Library Opanrael, and Knight Commander Ector Brahms of the Knights of the Black Fist.
In the , barbarians from the Ride sacked the vassal settlements of Whitehorn, Verdigris, and Ilinvur, creating refugees of the towns residents and forcing them to retreat to Phlan for shelter. The Lord Protector spurned his subjects and ordered the Old City to be locked down. 
He later met with a band of adventurers and tasked them with killing the chieftains of each of the barbarian tribes but cared little for their success. In truth the Lord Protector sought to force the refugees from the northern settlements to become soldiers, and march them off to fight the tribes of the Ride, solving both the issues he saw as troubles that plagued and interfered with his rulership.
Some time over the next few years, Lord Anivar was unexpectedly killed in a construction mishap while touring Valjevo Castle during a period of renovation. He had no heir apparent and rule of the city passed down to Knight Commander Ector Brahms.