Anomen Delryn was a nobleman and a squire who served in the Most Noble Order of the Radiant Heart during the mid–14 century DR.
Anomens often gave the first impression of being an insufferably vain who constantly bragged about battles hed most likely never fought.
Anomen had a strained relationship with his father. He often submitted to Lord Delryns hostility and vitriol regardless of how he felt.
He had great respect for Keldorn Firecam, a highly respected senior member of the Order of the Radiant Heart. Sir Ryan Trawl held Anomen to high esteem and believed him ready to achieve full knighthood. He was well-acquainted  with other squires from the order, among them Ajantis Ilvastarr of Waterdeep.
Anomen owned a unique shield that was gifted to him by his father.
Anomen Delryn, a native of Athkatla, was the son of Lord Cor and Lady Moirala Delryn. He had a younger sister, Moira. His mother died while Anomen was relatively young.
In the 1360s DR, Anomens ambition to become a paladin of Helm was denied when his father, wanting his son to join him in the family merchant business, refused to sponsor him for knighthood. He became estranged from his father. Instead, Anomen chose to train as a warrior-priest of Helm, and sought his knighthood through the sponsorship of the Church of Helm.
During his time as a squire he fought many battles alongside the knights of the Radiant Heart. He was there for their campaign against the Hillgnasher giants. He helped battle against the orcs that poured down from the Ommlur Hills.
In the , Anomen traveled with some squires of Torm to a tournament in the city of Riatavin. On their way, the group was waylaid by a griffon. While knights-to-be were scattered and panicked, Anomen managed to get into the griffons back and slay it with his spear. 
As of the the , he was still a squire in the Most Noble of Order of the Radiant Heart and would soon be facing his knighthood trial. He spent some time in the Copper Coronet in the slums of Athkatla seeking a group with which to adventure.