Anorrweyn Evensong was an elven wizard leader of the Sisterhood of the Silver Fire, the sect of Mystra in Myth Drannor, and a close ally of the Council of Twelve who lost her life in the Weeping War.
Anorrweyn was a beautiful elven woman, tall, slender, and graceful with long cascading brown hair.
In life, Anorrweyn Evensong wore a gentle-smelling perfume scented with gardenias, in death, the phantom aroma accompanied her spirit.
Priestess Anorrweyn was known for her wisdom as well a tactical prowess and expertise in both arcane and divine magic.
In life, she was an accomplished wizards and cleric of Mystra. Her skills and influence were great enough to be a close ally and advisor of the Council of Twelve. After her death, she remained a powerful creature who wielded her magics in service of the Lady of Mystery, protecting the ruins of Myth Drannor.
Anorrweyn Evensong was born into the noble gold elf House Durothil long before the advent of the Weeping War and the destruction of her home, Myth Drannor. During the period of time Elminster Aumar spent in the City of Song, from 241 to 261 DR, Anorrweyn became inspired by the strange human man who affected the culture of Myth Drannor to open its doors to the outside world and bring on the golden age. Following Elminsters dedication to the Art, she embraced worship of Mystra and created the sect dedicated to the Lady of Mystery, the Sisterhood of Silver Fire.
When Myth Drannor fell under the wave of the Army of Darkness in 714 DR, Anorrweyn Evensong was fighting for her home along with her closest friends and allies of the Council of Twelve, Trasaal, Ualair, and others. The heiress of House Durothil stood alone at the shrine to Mystra, in the Nightingale Court. During the battle nycaloths unleashed a wall of living flame on the Court and as the city fell and she met her goddess. Her will and love for Myth Drannor and the Shrine of the Silver Fire were so strong that Mystra granted Anorrweyn power to walk the Prime Material plane as a ghost, a guarding apparition, tied to the temple where her body was buried.
Over the centuries that followed, Anorrweyn Evensong stood strong, defending her small shrine of ancient sanctity. She made allies, like Odelinde, the Golden Serpent, and undead enemies who sought to desecrate the shrine. On a rare occasion, Anorrweyn appeared to adventurers who were friendly to the worshipers of Mystra to offer them advice and temporary protection. Each time she stepped into the Prime Material, a ghostly apparition of her shrine materialized as well, as if never destroyed by the Weeping War.thumb|Anorrweyn Evensong, becoming one with the 260x260px
As the City of Songs ruins stood through the centuries, stories of the Mystra ghostly cleric brought surviving members of Sisterhood of Silver Fire in search of council with the founder of the sect. These pilgrimages continued until circa 1169 DR until the ruins became too dangerous to traverse even for the Mystran worshipers.
Sometime before 1369 DR, a lich who was once defeated by Anorrweyns ghost retaliated by sending his undead minions to desecrate Evensongs grave. The creatures stole her skull, disturbing the priestesss body and the divine enchantments that bound her to the Prime Material plane. The skull was taken into the lichs lair deep within Elven Catacombs under Castle Cormanthor and Anorrweyn was left powerless, fading in and out of existence in time and space. In her weakened state, the priestess was not able to stop dark nagas Kog, Skerndli, and Gorgat claiming the ruined temple of Mystra as their lair.
In 1369 DR, the Cult of the Dragon took hold of the elven ruins. Led by Kya Mordrayn, they were able to tap into the immense power of a pool of radiance that formed in Castle Cormanthor. Using its foul magics, the cult twisted and wrapped the citys mythal. The irreparable damage done to the mythal saddened the goddess of magic, and she placed a call to her worshipers, a call for aid. Elminster heeded the call and assembled adventurers to protect the magics of the mythal and destroy the corrupted pool. One such group were the Veiled Ones. The heroes reached the ruined temple of Mystra and slain its evil inhabitants. Next, they placed the holy symbol of the goddess onto the altar, giving Anorrweyn Evensong the strength to appear. The elven priestess told them about the mythals corruption, about its guardian, baelnorn Miroden Silverblade, and asked for the retrieval of her skull so the priestess could serve her deity once again.
Subsequently, the Veiled Ones reassembled the undead elven maids body, returning her to full strength. During the journey, they discovered that the damage done to the mythal was severe, and the only way or repairing it was replacing the gem of the weave. Miroden Silverblades undead existence was tied to the corrupted jewel, and as the last act of protection of the ruins, he shattered the gem, ending his own unlife. With Anorrweyn Evensongs guidance and Harldain Ironbars help, the Veiled Ones replaced the gem, the perfect sapphire. The elven priestess volunteered to become the new guardian of the mythal. She merged with Mystras greatest spell, the mythal of Myth Drannor, returning it to full power and purging the Cults corruption.
Under Anorrweyn Evensongs watchful eye, the city of Myth Drannor was resettled in the 15 century DR and later, in the  faced another tragedy as the Netherese enclave Thultanthar crashed into the citys central business district. However, despite the calamity, the mythal still remained, along with Anorrweyn, and other beings tied to the mythals magics.