Anthilar was a mage dwelling in the city of Untisczer in Lapaliiya in the 3 century DR. He was a legendary figure, known as the Archmage of Untisczer. He was later a lich who sought to manipulate affairs in Tashluta in the Tashalar.It is unclear if Anthilar is intended to be the ruler of Untisczer or just a prominent citizen.
In the Year of Wasteful Pride, 285 DR, the Shoon Imperium snatched control of Lapaliiya, but its cities remained effectively independent. Nevertheless, there was an uprising in Untisczer, but it failed. Nevertheless, Shoon V had an excuse to launch the Tashalar Campaigns, already long planned. Untisczer was obliterated as a shocking show of military and magical force. However, Anthilar managed to survive his citys destruction and escaped to his secret lair in the Tashalar. 
It was here that Anthilar transformed himself into an undead lich and plotted to covertly control the merchants of Tashluta.
Finally, in the Year of the Laughing Dead, 1056 DR, Anthilar resurfaced, making an unexpected appearance in the streets of Tashluta, where he exposed the citys leading oligarch as a disguised yuan-ti abomination. This started a spell-battle between the two that ended with the yuan-ti dead and the lich severely incapacitated. Unconscious, he was trapped inside a massively armored metal lichs coffin and shipped north out of the city. His phylactery was not located.
The intended destination was the Skullspire, a temple to Myrkul, the god of the dead, in Tulmon near the Lake of Steam, where the senior priests of the Conclave of Doom desired to study the lich. It never got there, and the lichs coffin changed ownership many times until at last it became part of the hoard of the mercury dragon Tostyn Alaerthmaugh in the Evermoors. It lay there, still unopened by 1373 DR.
The Crypt of Anthilar, his legendary secret lair, was hidden in the mountains west of the Tashan Gap in the Tashalar. It was reputed to hold the spellskins of Mhairshaulk. Many adventurers searched for it in the 14 century DR, but few, or none, were ever seen again.
It was supposed by some that Anthilar, though trapped, could manifest as a ghost from faraway and that he regularly returned to his lair to see that no-one trespassed there.