Arabella was a tiefling child who traveled among a group of refugees across the Western Heartlands during the late 15 century DR.
Arabella was the daughter of Locke and Komira. She was also a member of the childrens thief network led by Mol.
Like other tieflings in Elturel, Arabella and her family were exiled from the city following its descent down to the plane of Avernus in the . Following the lead of Zevlor, the tiefling refugees trekked west along the Risen Road towards Baldurs Gate, but were forced to seek shelter with the druids at the Emerald Grove when goblins threatened their safety.
Growing weary of their cohabitation with the tieflings, the druids of the grove led by Kagha began the ritual known as the Rite of Thorns, sealing their home away from the surrounding Heartlands. The acting lead druid planned to eject the tieflings from Emerald Grove, subjecting them to a second exile. Taking matters into their own hands, the tiefling children arranged for Arabella to steal the idol of Silvanus from the druids, temporarily halting their ritual.
Kagha became aware of Arabella as the guilty party, recovered the idol, and openly interrogated her in front of her fellow druids. She had her viper Teela threaten the child, ready to execute Arabella on the spot as her parents looked on helplessly if no others intervened. It is unknown if Arabella survived the incident or not. If Arabelle had perished after being bitten by Kaghas viper, and depending on the outcome of events surrounding the grove, Komira would poison Kaghas wine at a later celebration, incapacitating Kagha and leaving her at the mercy of her dagger.
During the tieflings subsequent exodus from Emerald Grove, they were forced to travel through the Shadow-cursed Lands to reach Baldurs Gate. Arabellas parents were murdered at the hands of one Malus Thorm, the undead surgeon of the House of Healing in Reithwin. If Arabella still lived, then she was separated from them during the journey, and when found had developed sorcerous powers shadowy in origin. If rescued, she would brief enjoy the company of Withers, who comforted her about the death of her parents.