Arauthator was a white dragon who lived in Oyaviggaton in the Sea of Moving Ice.
Arauthator was orphaned as a wyrmling in 940 DR when the archmage Tulrun slaughtered his entire family in revenge for his mother Sneighfanglen killing the crystal dragon Krustalonos, a close companion of Tulrun. The dragon spent much of his early life plotting revenge against his familys killer. In 1279 DR, he sent the first of many waves of attackers against his enemys stronghold of Tulruns Tent. Ten years later in 1289 DR, Tulrun met Arauthator face-to-face, not looking to kill him but rather to parley. Arauthator agreed to not attack the civilised parts of the Silver Marches in exchange for Tulrun leaving him alone.
Arauthator strongly valued protecting and maintaining his domain against traps, enemies, and overhunting. To that end, he destroyed the frost giant community of Bulindiful and the bugbear hold located within Sardins Sword. He and the white dragon Ingeloakastimizilian came to an uneasy truce to avoid a mutually destructive battle over rulership of the Reghed Glacier prior to the latters death. Arauthator avoided Icewind Dale even after his rivals death.
Arauthator gained fame in 1324 DR for slaying the red dragon Rathalylaug above the city of Neverwinter as well as the sorceress Shareera when he smashed her tower in his triumph. He was also known for killing the Hosttower mage Phaurothlin over contested claims to a Netherese spellbook by freezing and shattering the mage against a mountain, and for shoving the blue dragon Eltagrathuuloor into a mountain (and subsequently burying them alive in a rockslide) during a visit to a Magefair in Var the Golden.
Arauthator was among the dozen or so dragons that attacked the Host Tower of the Arcane in Luskan due to Sammasters Rage of Dragons in 1373 DR. When part of the tower fell, Arauthator made off with a good deal of magical items, including a few powerful, priceless tomes. 
While Lonefang Mountain remained his primary lair, Arauthator established several smaller lairs in the icebergs of the Sea of Moving Ice. One such lair was Oyaviggaton, from which he would meet with his mate Arveiaturace. 
In 1484 DR Arauthator and his son Aurbangras allied with the orc and drow forces that assaulted Luruar during the Darkening he also was ridden by Tiago Baenre in the assault against Nesme.
Arauthators mother was the "Spawn of Auril", Sneighfanglen. She, her mate and all of Arauthators siblings were killed when he was a wyrmling. 
Arauthators first mate was Ghaulantatra, the "Old Mother Wyrm", but he seemingly did not care when she was killed.
Arauthators mate after that was Arveiaturace. They had offspring, including Aurbangras.
Arauthator is said to have killed more than 20 of his own offspring defending his territory from ambitious dragons.