| death          = 1357
| deathnotes     = slain by Shargrailar on Flamerule 9
| daterefs       = 
| parents        = Dhalgrave (suspected), Amarune
| spouses        = 
| siblings       = Sintre
| children       = 
| familyrefs     = 
Architrave was a malaugrym in the mid–14 century. He sought spellfire in the Prime Material plane.
A shapeshifter, Architraves own form was mutable. While in his own form, Architrave made use of multiple tentacles.
The malaugrym chafed under the need for keeping up his guard.
He showed great prowess when using his tentacles in combat.
Architrave carried a doomstar that required recharging, per him.
Architrave stayed close to his sister, Sintre. They had spent some time with their mother, Amarune, but he had talked to her less than his sister. He suspected their father may have been Dhalgrave.
Architrave was named after a late human servant of Malaug. Theyd known their mother, Amarune, for some time, but shed since disappeared from their lives, and he never truly knew whom his sire was. By , he came to seek spellfire at the Gates of Doom, though Shandril had yet to manifest the ability, strongly implying he possessed some foresight of the coming events.
At that point Architrave and his sister, Sintre, came across two other malaugrym, Magusta and Stralane, while impersonating warriors in the caravan of the Cult of the Dragon at the Gates of Doom. One of the four, almost certainly Architrave himself,As Architrave is hunting for spellfire, and the killer sought entry across the Gates, it stands to reason that Architrave was the most likely killer. decided to kill the rest of the caravan to make their way, and their partner revealed themselves the other two showed themselves afterwards, and a fight ensued between the two groups. Architrave and Sintre lost the other two, of which one had determined that Architrave was seeking spellfire. Architrave sought this spellfire to wield it as a weapon against the Shadowmaster High.
Architrave kept hunting for spellfire for at least two more months. He posed as a priest of Bane during a coup at Zhentil Keep it was there that his sister found out he sought spellfire, and he revealed to her the doomstar that was the linchpin of his plan.
Not long after, Architrave struck against Thiszult of the Cult of the Dragon, who fled him. Afterwards, Architrave flew up into the air, drawing the attention of Shargrailar, who slew him on the spot. The event happened on Flamerule 9.