Aremag () was a dragon turtle who lived in the Bay of Chult from at least the mid–14 to the late 15 centuries DR. His activities in the bay were well known by the locals of Port Nyanzaru.
Thanks to the fight with the Narwhal, Aremag had a blind, milky left eye and was missing a piece of its shell. He had a particularly grouchy personality.
Aremag thought highly of himself, and expected deference from any sailors he encountered.  When forced into combat with his patrons, he would often avoid direct combat, and rather knock his enemies into the water or capsize their vessels for them to be devoured by reef sharks.
Aremag considered a region of the Sea of Swords north of Chult his territory. The trade routes from Baldurs Gate and Waterdeep to Chult passed right through it. This led to the practice of ships carrying payment for the dragon turtle whenever they planned to pass through the southern Sea of Swords, usually in the form of treasure although pirates were known to capture captives to offer him. Aremag would then take up the amassed loot and store it in his lair, the location of which was unknown.
In the , the Refuge Bay Trading Company made a deal with Aremag to pay a monthly toll for permission to pass. However, after some months, Aremag reneged and threatened the Narwhal under Captain Bawr for another toll under protest, she agreed to pay treasure and ten men of the watch whod failed to spot Aremag, plus Artus Cimber for being in the way. His guardian spirit, Skuld, defeated the monstrous Bawr and threw her into the sea, to be the first of the sacrifices. Artus then threw a magical bomb&mdasha gunstone given by Skuld&mdashthat damaged Aremags shell, then ordered ballista to shoot the dragon turtle. Eight struck, and one blinded his left eye. Aremag breathed scalding steam over the ship, and sank back into the sea. The dragon turtles injuries did not diminish him in the slightest, and if anything made him more ornery. For more than a century, he would continue demanding payment from passing ships, and did not suffer to negotiate.
In the late 14 century, some believed that the harbormaster of Port Nyanzaru had made an agreement with Aremag, paying a monthly tribute for the beast to keep all other sea monsters out of the Bay.