Argonethestor was a brewer, scholar, a retired adventurer, and a powerful mage who studied under Vangerdahast Aeiulvana of Cormyr, active in the late 14 century DR.
In the late 14 century DR, Argonethestor was a tall and thin man in his twilight years.
Argonethestor was a paranoid sort, wary of people, especially those whom his dog Fluff didnt like.
Argonethestors trusted and beloved companion was his yuppy female dog named Fluff, who was sensitive to evil and malicious magic items.
Argonethestor of Cormyr had a long life. He studied magic and transmutation the Royal Magician of Cormyr himself, Vangerdahast Aeiulvana, and alter, had a fruitful career of an adventurer. By the late 14 century DR, Argonethestor left his adventuring life behind and focused his time on scholarly pursuits, study of magic, and brewing.
On the 17 of Flamerule, the , Argonethestor was visiting the Wizards Guild of Ravens Bluff to study the secrets of old dwarven brewing. During that time, the Ravenian temple of Mystra – the Halls of Mystery, recovered an evil artifact that belonged to baneliches – the Book of Vile Darkness, penned by the deity Bane himself. Argonethestors associate in the Wizards Guild, Sebastian Silverlocke, Dean of Abjuration and Knight of the Mystic Flame, approached the man and asked for his magical help on behalf of the temple. Argonethestor was a spell-caster trustworthy enough to keep that request secret and powerful enough to cast a potent version of the teleportation circle on the group of goodly heroes of the Living City tasked with transporting the book to Harris Redfire in Dragon Falls.
Then, the adventurers met the foreign wizard at or around eight bells. He was amused by the temples request but agreed to cast the spell nevertheless, despite it being a long casting process. During the preparation, Argonethestor held a lengthy discussion with a dwarvish adventurer about the brewing practices of the stout folk of the Vast. But when the chanting and preparations were done and amber dust was spread around the circle, Fluff attempted to jump and attack the adventurers. However, Argonethestor suspended the barking dog in the air with a quick spell.