Arietta Elbetrina Ifig Seasilver was a Cormyrean noblewoman of House Seasilver in Marsember, and the chosen of Siamorphe. She took a role in some critical events in Faerûn during the Second Sundering in the late 15 century DR.
True to the teachings of Siamorphe, Arietta believed that the nobility of the Realms had a duty to serve their land and its people above their own interests.
In order to get away from the life of a young noblewoman, Arietta would masquerade as a bard named Elbertina and perform at The Old Oak tavern.
Among Ariettas most prized possessions were her yew hunting bow and her lyre. She even had a quiver of magical arrows that were personally made by the great War Wizard Glathra Barcantle.
Arietta  was the daughter of Grand Duke Farnig and Grand Duchess Elira Seasilver. She had a contentious relationship with her mother, and believed her father was not dutiful to his subjects.
She was well-served by her lady-in-waiting Odelia,
During her adventures Arietta grew close to two of her companion, the city guard Kleef Kenric, and the heartwarder Joelle Emmeline, the latter with whom she became a lover. With Joelles love and Kleefs trust and devotion, she overcame a crisis of identity and uncovered her powers as Siamorphes chosen.
Arietta grew up as a bright and dutiful young woman, wholly devoted to the teachings of Siamorphe. While she had never received any sort of divine vision or mandate, she had periodic dreams that featured the Divine Right. Afterwards, the priests and priestesses at the temple began to lavish praise and favor upon Arietta, to the point where she believed herself to be Siamorhpes chosen.
When the shadovar armies assaulted Marsember, on Uktar 2 of the , Arietta was placed under strict protection in her familys estate by orders of her father. She was to be kept safe until the family could sail to Elversult aboard their ship, the Wave Wyvern.
Arietta escaped Marsember with Kleef Kenric, paladin follower of the dead god Helm, and two Chosen, Malik el Sami, follower of Cyric, and Joelle Emmeline, follower of Sune. Malik and Jeolle had a mission from their gods to take the Eye of Gruumsh to the earth primordial Grumbars temple in the Underchasm. Arietta decided to help them, for a time under the guise of Elbertina.
The group traveled with the Eye across the Sea of Fallen Stars to the lands of the Vilhon Reach, and all the way through the Chondalwood forest. As the group was rafting down the a rover to the Underchasm Arietta was confronted with a hurtful "truth" posed by Malik that she was not Siamorphes actual chosen, and her "powers" had merely been an after effect of Kleefs leadership as a follower of Helm. Arietta fell for Maliks hurtful words, and doubted her abilities and importance for much of their journey.
Eventually, the party reached the Underchasm and Sadrachs Spire. When the group was confronted with the great rage of the plaguechanged Sadrach himself, Arietta proved she was indeed Siamorphes chosen. With the support of her lover Joelle, and the confidence of Kleef, Arietta commanded the noble presence necessary to step past the Sadrach and his magic, allowing the group to deliver the Eye to the temple of Grumbar.
A short time later, Malik betrayed his companions in a final desperate attack to slay Arietta in the name of Cyric. Joelle tackled the traitorous man to save her lover, sacrificing her own life in the process. While she suffered great loss, Arietta and Kleef managed to escape Sadrachs Spire, setting free the people that were trapped within. They began their journey back to their home in Cormyr, as noblewoman and devoted knight.