Arnthiir Windrivv was an adventuring human bard of the mid-to-late 14 century DR, and a member of the Nine.
He was visibly restless.
Arnthiir was a hearty thrill-seeker, prone to reckless deeds, and a pranksome man, though he was somewhat exhausting.
Despite his age, the rogue was still notably dexterous by , despite a career that stretched back before  and a human lifespan. He was possessed of remarkable force of personality.
Of note, due to a curse, Arnthiir had to change his name.
Windrivv was known to carry an enchanted dagger that could be made to glow with faerie fire on command, a ring of the ram, and a ring of spell turning.
Arnthiir Windrivv wandered from tavern to inn throughout Amn and Tethyr as of the mid-to-late 14 century DR, occasionally serving Laeral Silverhand on covert matters. Those sometimes took him through Waterdeep and even Skullport.
He was once one of the Nine alongside the ranger Thanadar and Laeral Silverhand. After they were released from their curses, Arnthiir continued to serve Laeral Silverhand, who nonetheless found his company exhausting.
One of his maternal ancestors had a bad reputation he named himself after that one when he changed his name.
The bard was one of the Nine in the , the year in which they acquired the Crown of Horns, a Myrkulite artifact. The crown put a curse on them that gave any hordling in Hades the ability to teleport without error to their presence, even across planes, by simply uttering their names. Laeral came to possess the Crown through most of that time with its fell power, the artifact drove the adventurers to fight each other until Laeral was rescued by Khelben Arunsun. The mage then broke the curse on the surviving members, including the bard and the ranger, but that required them to abandon their old names.
By the mid-to-late 14 century DR, Arnthiir, as he was now known, spent most of his time wandering Amn and Tethyr, but had undertaken occasional missions for Laeral where she required a covert agent.