Artemis Entreri (once known as Barrabus the Gray and the former arch-nemesis of Drizzt DoUrden. A cunning and tactical assassin, Entreri lived an empty life, devoid of any kind of pleasure, existing only to kill. The passage of time caused him to soften his sentiments, but never his fighting edge. He was credited with being one of the most feared and effective assassins in Faerûn.
Artemis Entreri was not very tall (in fact, considered "small") but he was compact with wiry muscles. He was possessed of angular features, striking high cheekbones, and prominent sideburns. Though he was usually clean-shaven, Artemis always seemed to need a shave. He had brown skin, which was later tinged with a grayish hue. His raven-black hair was thick and full, but his eyes were gray and lifeless, portraying the emptiness of his life and his soul. When he was about 40 years old, Artemis had the lean athleticism of a man half his age. While traveling with the drow elf Jarlaxle, Artemis was often seen wearing a small-brimmed black hat called a bolero.
As humans aged far more quickly than elves, Artemis first started to feel the bite of age in 1364 DR, while Drizzt was still as agile and powerful as he was when the two of them first met. He then appeared to have reversed age a full decade, and his aging slowed considerably. It was likely that he would live as long as an elf or dwarf, however.
In 1484 DR, Artemis appeared to be 40 years old.
Artemis was a professional and always had an air of control about him. Every move he made or word he spoke was calculated to achieve a desired effect. He never allowed emotions or the circumstances, no matter how dire, to master him. Underneath this facade, however, he was terribly angry, which he recognized in himself only with the influence of Idalias flute.
Artemis tirelessly maintained himself in top condition, and constantly sought to improve his martial skills. He was extremely cunning, able to out-think as well as outfight his opponents. Artemis vowed to "never leave an enemy in his wake"
Artemiss greatest hatred and disgust was reserved for those who were willing to hurt or betray their children for their own benefit or to save themselves. This was because of events in his childhood.
Artemiss time spent traveling with Drizzt DoUrden in the 15th century DR changed him. He was generally less angry and became willing to defend his allies as well as entertain the notion of having friends.
right|250px|right|Artemis Entreris signature dagger.
It was an evil weapon, and if used to kill someone, their soul was utterly destroyed, preventing resurrection. It also proved able to absorb some of the magical abilities of its victims, bestowing them upon its wielder, such as when Entreri used it to kill a shade and absorbed some of their shadow-manipulation abilities.
Charons Claw
 In 1366 DR, Artemis took the artifact from Kohrin Soulez after tricking Soulez into grabbing the blade without the proper gauntlet. It became one of his signature items, but also made him a target for the Netherese. Later it enabled Herzgo Alegni to enslave him. Entreri attributed his long lifespan to Charons Claw, though it was unclear whether this was the case or not. In the , desiring death, Entreri therefore traveled to Gauntlgrym to throw the blade into the body of Maegera, with Drizzt actually doing the deed, but it was not destroyed inside the magma primordial, and was retrieved intact and fully-functional by Jarlaxle and Catti-Brie after 24 years of being entombed in molten rock.
Bolero
 Artemis received a small-brimmed black hat, called a "bolero", from Jarlaxle. Though looking inconspicuous, the hat, like every item of Jarlaxles, has beneficial properties, magical and mechanical in nature. It had the ability to chill its wearers body temperature to better help him or her hide from eyes seeing in the heat-sensing spectrum and it had a wire inset into the band that held the hat in place on top of Artemis head even when falling off a horse.
Idalias flute
 Artemis received Idalias flute from the dragon sisters Tazmikella and Ilnezhara in 1367 DR. For Artemis, playing the flute helped to clear his thoughts. However, the flute also brought up old, unwelcome memories and placed Artemis in a state of emotional turmoil. He eventually broke the flute into two pieces and threw them to the ground at Jarlaxles feet, wanting no more to do with it (or Jaxlaxle). He viewed that flute as part of Jarlaxles attempt to manipulate him.
Nightmare statuette
 A figurine of wondrous power in the form of an obsidian horse was given to him by Jarlaxle. When summoned from the Lower Planes, it turned into a nightmare with flaming hooves. The summoned horse never tired and was resistant to most non-magical attacks. The magic was limited however, and the horse disappeared when the magic of its statuette ran out. The magic recharged after some time, leaving the horse ready to ride again. The nightmare could be dispelled by powerful countermagic and temporarily sent back to the Lower Planes. The steed was fearless and charged forward with reckless abandon. Artemis continued to carry the statuette as Barrabus.
Belt-buckle knife
 As Barrabus, Artemis wore a belt buckle that could turn into a knife.
Cloak
 Artemis possessed a cloak of the bat that could transform into a pair of bat wings that allowed him to fly, but nearly resulted in his death.
Sword
 Artemis at one time carried a slender sword that emitted a greenish-blue light.
Cats Eye circlet
 For a time, he wore a Cats Eye circlet that allowed him to see in the infrared spectrum to an extent.
He was known to make use of poison, such as from the rockstinger fish.
Artemiss first true friendship was with the halfling Dwahvel Tiggerwillies, with whom he spoke openly, sharing opinions and thoughts he shared with nobody else. He trusted her as a confidant, informer, and helper. When they parted ways, Artemis wrote her a very moving letter written in a way that caused Artemis himself to doubt that he was the letters author.
The relationship between Jarlaxle and Artemis was often strained, but the two traveled together for many years and seemed to have developed some form of friendship—perhaps more so on the part of Jarlaxle, who considered Artemis a friend and even a century later grieved at the idea of his death. Jarlaxle and Artemis met when Vierna DoUrden employed Artemis to help find, capture, and fight against Drizzt DoUrden. After Artemis was trapped in the Underdark, Jarlaxle gave him advice and missions, perhaps his only solace from the drow.
In Calimport, Artemis rescued Jarlaxle—claiming he needed the drow for protection—and escaped the wrath of Rai-Guy and Kimmuriel during the Bregan Daerthe takeover. Artemis was later betrayed by Jarlaxle to the Netherese and never forgave him, although he did not know the full story, which was that Jarlaxle had every intention of rescuing him but was manipulated by forces outside his control.
Jarlaxle and Artemis did not come face-to-face after the betrayal (Artemis was a statue during his release from Draygo Quicks clutches). Artemis refused to enter Luskan because of the possibility that Jarlaxle might be there. He also originally believed that Jarlaxle was behind his capture and removal to QXorlarrin.
When Drizzt ran into Artemis as Barrabus the Gray, Artemis found that he was no longer jealous of Drizzt (claiming he had grown "bored" of him) and found that he now trusted the drow. For his part, Drizzt had the chance to kill Artemis and decided not to, finding that he was a welcome reminder of the past. Drizzt even gave up the chance to exchange Artemis and Charons Claw for the captured Guenhwyvar, although he felt like a "miserable friend" afterwards. He became somewhat jealous of Artemis when the intimacy between him and Dahlia became clear, but Drizzt later let that go.
Just before believing he would die, Artemis admitted he had always envied Drizzt but "not for [his] blades."
Entreri met the scarred bounty hunter Calihye while in the Bloodstone Lands. She blamed Entreri when her dear friend Parissus was killed in battle, as he had driven a cart over Parissus as she lay dying, but Calihye found herself falling in love with Entreri despite that, thereby muting her desire for revenge. Entreri had feelings for her too, however, when Artemis was exiled from Damara, the thought of him leaving her after she had lost Parissus and made herself emotionally vulnerable to him despite that, so offended Calihye that she attacked him, stabbing him multiple times. Entreri lived however, and he ended up throwing her out of an upstairs window.
During their travels, Dahlia Sinfelle and Artemis bonded through an understanding that came from shared past experiences.