Ashala Melarn was a drow priestess of Lolth in Menzoberranzan and third daughter of the First Priestess of House Melarn in the late 15 century DR.
Ashala dressed in the robes of her office.
Ashala could be influenced by those who showed they believed that her way was the right way to serve Lolth. She appreciated citing historical precedents or showing devotion to her House.
Ashala was the third daughter of Kyrnill Melarn.
Shakti Hunzrin considered Ashala the most notable of the Melarn priestesses.
In the , Ashala was her familys representative for an alliance with House Xorlarrin and Bregan Daerthe in handling a party of adventurers. For the expedition, she asked adventurers loyal to her house to perform a holy ritual in the outpost that was the objective of the mission. The ritual cleansed an altar to guard against taint from the Xorlarrin or Bregan Daerthe drow.
After the adventurers returned from their first mission, Hoshtar Xorlarrin was invited to meet with members of the Council of Spiders by his cousin, Raelaryn Xorlarrin. At the meeting, a Jaezred Chaulssin assassin killed Raelaryn and captured Hoshtar. The alliances hired team managed to rescue him. Regardless of the alliances decision on how to deal with the civil war, it was unanimous in sending adventurers to eliminate the leader of the assassins. However, Ashala wanted to know if Hoshtar had willingly met the heretics of the Council of Spiders.
In the , Ashala together with the upper ranks of her House attended her matron mother Zhindia Melarns meeting with Shakti Hunzrin to plot the capture or killing of Drizzt and Zaknafein DoUrden.
However, secretly supporting her mother Kyrnill against Zhindia, Ashala spied on her own House, divulging information to Bregan Daerthe. But after the last meeting with Kimmuriel Oblodra, Ashala was unveiled and captured by Zhindia, who sentenced her to a terrible torture to be devoured by maggots. Thereafter, she was considered dead. However, in the , there was a meeting between Zhindia and Kyrnill at which the yochlol Yiccardaria had Ashala tethered by a spiked collar and constantly tugged at it to draw out little yelps of pain.