Lord-prince Asmuth was a nobleman from Zhentil Keep in the mid–13 century DR. His younger brother Manshoon eliminated him to secure his position.
The depraved man was ruthless, like his brother.
He was a swordsman. Of note, he continued to have brigandly adventures, even slaying some adventurers from ambush, after being blinded.
While in the Keep, Asmuth liked destructive roistering and playing cruel pranks.
Asmuth was the son of Harlshoon and the brother of Manshoon being the child of a man with a seat on the Council granted him the unofficial position of "Lord-prince".
While in Zhentil Keep, Asmuth spent much time with his brother, Manshoon, and their friend Chess, playing cruel pranks and just being a pain. At some point, the three youths were sent out with gold and swords to prove themselves out in the world, following the custom of Zhent nobility. Each of them had a separate mission, in addition to that. Unknown to them, the mage Calkontor, Chesss father, intended to kill Harlshoon while they were out. He carried this out, but died in the process. Their parents seats were instead occupied by Theilon Greencloak and Ulsan Baneservant three months after their departure, in the .
The trio sought out a barrow, which was purported to hold an enchanted sword amongst other things by the lore they had consulted. In this barrow, they came across a group of Harper women, who were after the same sword. As they were at cross-purposes, they crossed swords during combat, Asmuth was blinded, and Manshoon lost a hand to the sword when he tried to snatch it. The two brothers were rescued by their friend Chess. Asmuths blindness required his horse to be led by another. They wandered for a time, until one night they ambushed a band of adventurers. The three Zhents were victorious, and amongst their spoils were an enchanted wand and a spellbook, both of which Manshoon took. After a few more adventures as brigands, their trip home began.
On the way back, the trio learned of the deaths of their fathers while in a tavern, somewhere in the Dalelands, and resolved to inherit their seats on the council. Though at first Manshoon had thought to support his older brother, he believed that the older sibling would necessarily lead them into a protracted battle by trying to dominate Zhentil Keep with the strongest possible force, and chose another way. in the . This ensured his ability to take the seat on the council would not be challenged.
It was popular knowledge, albeit false, in Zhentil Keep that Manshoon had been unable to save Asmuth, rather than actively causing his death.