Aster Merris was the regional leader of the Forgotten Lords, a major prosperous trading cartel active across the Sword Coast in the late 14 century DR.
Aster was a young and slender woman with green eyes and shoulder-length chestnut hair. She carried herself with a curt and business-like demeanor. Asters golden touch almost always guaranteed profit. She prided herself on the Forgotten Lords honesty.
The Church of Waukeen respected Aster Merris. She was considered to be a canny and resourceful merchant favored by Waukeen. Aster greatly distrusted Shadow Thieves of Amn, especially Belueth the Calm, a mercenary who mightve joined merchant SaSanis operations on the Sword Coast North. She also distrusted the Fated Winds mercantile firm that was rumored to had been associated with the Zhentarim. Aster did not openly accuse the competitors of anything. However, Aster stressed her mercantile companys honesty when dealing with new costers interested in joining the Lords.
By the , the Forgotten Lords were already an influential mercantile group that spread its dealings across the Sword Coast. After the Shadow War finished, the trade and economy were left crippled in the area surrounding Neverwinter. The Forgotten Lords were among three major trade cartels granted offices within the Temple of Waukeen in the citys Tyrs Eye district. The Church of Waukeen guided the revival of trade and refilling of its drained coffers of the northern city with the blessing of Lord Nasher Alagondar. Aster Merris, the Forgotten Lords regional leader, was reassigned from the headquarters in Waterdeep to Neverwinter to supervise the newly established business.
During that period of time, a new coster joined the economy of the north. SaSani led her Mercantile House to the Sword Coast and opened its headquarters in the Crossroad Keep. Two of her associates did business in Neverwinter, including interactions with the Forgotten Lords. Ilfoss and Kizu disappeared soon after, secretly slain by the yuan-ti Forktongue cultists of an interloper deity, Zehir. SaSanis hirelings interviewed Aster regarding the missing merchants and were given an opportunity to ally the Mercantile House with the Forgotten Lords.