Astriel Shalyn was an agent of the Lords of Waterdeep that operated during the late 14 century DR.
Astriel was a tall woman with long raven-black glistening hair. She bore some resemblance to Talarenne. She had a variety of outfits and disguises to aid in her missions.
A talented spy and an affable person, Astriel could gain access to almost any thing or any place via charm or subterfuge. She was a capable bluffer, and often made key impressions to make copies. She had a well-trusted intuition that she often followed.
In the , Astriel was dispatched to Daggerford to investigate the "apparent" death of Duke Pwyll "Greatshout". The traveling caravan she was part of was ambushed by bandits, secretly Zhentarim agents. They used magic to trap the Lords Alliance agent in a magical sphere, but in the chaos of assault, mistakenly captured and abducted the adventurer Talarenne. The abducted womans friend, later known as the Hero of Daggerford, decided to aid Astriel in the investigation in hopes of rescuing their friend. In Daggerford, she used the assumed identity of Amara Leontyne and stayed at the Chateau Elite within the Money Quarter while she guided the adventurers in untangling the plots around Daggerford.
They investigated the mysterious weapon shipments that traveled through Daggerford via the Mariners Alliance and found their way into the dangs of the gathering orc forces in the citys vicinity. The weapons smuggling operations was masterminded by the Zhentarim agents. The city trade routes were under recently increased bandit attacks on the caravans allowed the new duke, Matagar Bugo, to fill Daggerford with the Griffons Mercenary Company troops that were discovered to be Zhents.
Astriels activities alerted the Zhent agents in Daggerford and after they attempted to assassinate her, Astriel and her adventuring friends relocated to Liams Hold. They took an abandoned Bhaals temple as the new base. From there they investigated Bronwyn Daggerford alleged kidnapping by the Xanathars Thieves Guild, and the disappearing cattle at the neighboring Wild Pastures area. The investigation let them uncover the assembling orc and tanarukk forces led by Gorgomorz, the Devil of Daggerford.
The Zhentarim forces entered into a dark alliance with Gorgomorzs tanarukks of the Dragonspear Castle. Zhentarim planted the puppet ruler to take over Daggerford - Matagar Bugo, while Gorgomorz wanted to destroy Daggerford. Zhentarim planned on betraying Gorgomorz. Once the balors orcs invade Daggerford, Zhentarim would lead Matagars Griffon mercs to defeat the invaders and imprison Gorgomorz inside a magical orb. The win wouldve let Matagar Bugo rule the city on behalf of Zhentil Keep with the full support of the citizens and the Lords Alliance.
Astriels adventurers uncovered the plot and tracked the Duke and his sister to Illefarn, where they were kept alive for the time being, guarded by the Griffons Mercenary Company. Pwyll Daggerford and Bronwyn Daggerford were freed, and Astriel with her adventurers took a stand against Gorgomorz, slaying him and securing Daggerford.