Atlavast was a Loremaster of Oghma and a self-appointed keeper of the library at the House of Knowledge in Neverwinter in the late 15 century DR.
Atlavast was jealous, antisocial, and eccentric, bordering on completely insane. He cared only about the books and lore kept in the library, obsessively indexing and reorganizing the entire collection and taking it upon himself to protect the valuable lore with his life. While aggressive and distrustful, he was not cruel.
Altavasts was antagonistic toward anyone trying to gain access to the underground library at the House of Knowledge, and thus proved to be a major annoyance for any faction wishing to gain access, such as members of the New Neverwinter movement, the Ashmadai, or adventurers.
The only people whom he could be persuaded to trust tended to be fellow worshipers of Oghma, although even they would be subjected to "tests" of physical and mental fortitude before gaining his confidence.
Atlavast was a young loremaster in service to the House of Knowledge when the Ruining occurred in the . The clergy sealed the underground library as they fled from the catastrophe, hoping to save the precious lore kept within, but they also accidentally sealed Atlavast inside. The experience fractured his sanity, and when the other loremasters returned, they found Altavast alive but fixated on the preservation of lore at all costs. Over the next thirty years, he became an eccentric recluse who wandered the library at all hours of the day and night, compulsively categorizing and re-categorizing the collection.
In the , the Oghman clergy abandoned the House of Knowledge under the direction of the Prophet, but Atlavast, then middle-aged, remained behind to continue indexing and watching over the underground library. If he encountered any visitors at this time, he would try to chase them away or to lead them into traps of his own devising. He made only rare visits to the surface, and remained ignorant of any activities happening above-ground, such as the occupation of the temple ruins by the Ashmadai.
It was rumored that he might not be quite as mad as he seemed to be, but was instead biding his time until a true heir of the Alagondar royal line returned to unseat Dagult Neverember and rule Neverwinter.