Aubrin Crownsilver, who usually went by his nickname "Brin", was a young acolyte of Torm and a scion of the Crownsilver noble family of Cormyr in the late 15 century DR. Due to his grandmothers dalliance with a prince of Cormyr, his father was a bastard Obarskyr, which, under Cormyrean law and rules of succession, placed him fourth in the line for the throne as of 1479 DR.
Brins father was assassinated by Crownsilver rivals when he was just a boy, presumably because of his fathers claim to the throne. His second cousin, Constancia Crownsilver, was assigned to look after him and be his nursemaid. Later, Brins aunt, Helindra Crownsilver, placed him in a Tormite monastery to hide him from rivals. Brin was an indifferent acolyte and was not happy at the monastery.
In the , Brin ran away from the monastary, which led the Tormites to charge Constancia with dereliction of duty. When Constancia followed Brin to the Sword Coast, the Tormites placed a bounty on her. It was this bounty that a trio of bounty hunters, Mehen and his adopted tiefling daughters Farideh and Havilar, were pursuing when they met Brin on the road to Neverwinter. Brin tagged along with the group and aided Farideh and Havilar in foiling a devilish plot in Neverwinter.
In the , Brin was waiting in Waterdeep for Mehen to return from the Suzail portal after taking Constancia to Cormyr. While they were in Waterdeep, word came to their Harper friend Tam Zawad that a page from an ancient, magical Netherese book was for sale. Before the group could purchase the page, it was bought by a shady caravan master, Adolican Rhand. Tam and friends were able to successfully steal the page from Rhands mansion and were able to locate the location of Tarchamus the Unyieldings library near Everlund.
The group traveled to the library and found the tome to which the page belonged. In the process, the companions killed Tarchamuss mummy and the ghosts of his apprentices. Unfortunately, they found it necessary to destroy the library.
Brin and Havilar had a relationship with each other.
Brin wasnt much of a priest although occasionally Torm saw fit to grant him healing powers. Brin also had access to the Crownsilvers vast wealth.