Aubree Lucent was a paladin of Torm and member of the Hellriders who served Elturel with honor during the late 15 century DR. She was among those within the city immediately following its Descent to the Nine Hells, and famously confronted a powerful archdevil during her adventures.
While she was still young, Aubree was a devoted and determined paladin-in-training.
Aubrees preferred weapon was a one-handed warhammer.
She was daughter of Sir Alusair Lucent, a fellow paladin of Torm and knight of the Hellriders.
In the , Aubree and her father were dispatched by High Overseer Thavius Kreeg to track down a group of thieves and recover an item stolen from his personal manor.
While visiting Wyrms Crossing at Baldurs Gate, the two were attacked by the hell knight Haruman. The hellish warrior abducted the senior Lucent, along with the stolen item, and transported him back down to the Nine Hells. Distraught but determined to save her father, Aubree turned to the Heroes of Baldurs Gate to help her save him from infernal damnation. 
thumb|right|300px|Aubree, facing down the Archduke of Avernus.
Aubree and the adventurers learned that the stolen item was an infernal puzzle box they had recovered, and traveled to Candlekeep to learn more. While discussing her situation with Great Reader Sylvira Savikas, Aubree and her allies were struck by a wild magic caused by the sorceress Delina. Aubree, Delina, and the other heroes were transported to Elturel, just as it had descended to Avernus in the Nine Hells.
Facing down the forces of the Hells in the streets of Elturel, Aubree, Delina, and the hero Minsc encountered Haruman and interrogated him for the location of Sir Alusair. They learned he and the other Hellriders of Elturel were to be sacrificed as part of some infernal contract. 
Aubree and Delina managed to track down the Hellriders. They learned that their former commander Thavius Kreeg was in fact a malevolent amnizu devil who forged the contract with the Archduke of Avernus. Aubree briefly reunited with her father before Archduke Zariel herself appeared before the group. While the fallen Zariel easily batted aside the heroes, Aubree confronted the fallen solar about her previous incarnation as a servant of Celestia. Zariel suffered a moment of personal crisis and eventually Elturel ascended from the Hells and returned to its place in Faerûn. 
After a few weeks time, order was restored in the city of Elturel. Aubree was knighted as a full member of the Hellriders in a ceremony presided over by her father.