Aumun Tholant Bezrar was a merchant from Marsember in the late 14 century DR.
Aumun Tholant Bezrar was quite fat, and as a result, often sweaty.
Aumun Tholant Bezrar was cheerfully malevolent, and jovial, too. To Durexter Dagohnlar, he was brutish and simple.
Malakar and Bezrar both had Marsemban long knifes, often used for gutting fish, but also for combat.
Aumun Tholant Bezrar was an importer of sundry goods, often dealing in the illicitly acquired.He made brutish, simple schemes.
Aumun Tholant Bezrar and Malakar Surth were known to have worked together, and it was believed by Durexter Dagohnlar that Malakar was the leader, while Bezrar was not as bold without him. Malakar knew that Aumun was infatuated with a dancer at the Amorous Anchor.
As of the early spring of , Malakar Surth and Aumun Tholant Bezrar had both been swindled of 10,000 gp by Durexter Dagohnlar.
At the Dagohnlars bedroom, they were able to get in undetected, then attack while the married couple was unclad, and otherwise engaged in bed, attacking with surprise. Aumun Tholant Bezrar, after choking Durexter, captured Starmara while binding her, Malakar Surth noticed she had a tattoo. Their two victims were first tied up on the rug, and then tied to the bedposts. They were distracted by Narnra Shalace, a thief, bursting into the room through the window, seeking to escape a pursuing Harper, Glarasteer Rhauligan.
Glarasteer made quick work of the two Aumun Tholant Bezrar fled after sustaining minor injuries, while Malakar Surth was pinned under a chest that fell atop his head, knocked out, and promptly ignored by the Harper. After he healed Narnra, she fled too, making him leave the scene to resume his pursuit. Durexter and Starmara Dagohnlar tried to free themselves and kill Malakar Surth.
Malakar got up to see the first rays of dawn, and managed to free himself before Starmara and Durexter released themselves. As he had an appointment early in the morning, he fled the house at full speed rather than eliminate them, suffering numerous accidents as he descended the stairs. He found Aumun Tholant Bezrar waiting for him at the door, with a coach car, warm towels, and a change of clothes, all of which were actually Malakar Surths he wondered briefly how come the man had known of those or managed to get his hands on them, given his house was trapped and never visited.
The coach drove them to Haelithtorntowers, where Harnrim Starangh had wanted them for meeting Lady Joysil Ambrur. They remained with Harnrim Starangh through the meeting, though they hardly spoke they both heard that Vangerdahast had retired to a sanctum near Mouth o Gargoyles, where he hoped to complete a certain task and maybe sire a heir.
They were summoned at a later date by Harnrim Starangh, who provided them with a bag of explosive devices and compelled them to pursue Vangerdahast with a spell, destroying any helmed horrors on the way to the sanctum by using the aforementioned devices. He then teleported them near the sanctum. The two of them started on their path, though they were disoriented and suspicious of their own actions, yet powerless not to follow the path before them. They continued to follow the path, attacking the helmed horrors before them with explosives, until they were attacked by a War Wizard sentry, Pheldemar, and fled.
The two made it back to Marsember, where they took refuge in the upper floors of a warehouse, near a box of Selgauntan glowstones, which Malakar believed would make them impossible to find by magic. While in there, they eavesdropped on two nobles, Thaedro and Sauvrurn, and learned that the ruffians owning that warehouse, almost certainly they themselves, were sought by the authorities and had been for many days. Learning of the Rightful Conspiracy and their plan to kill Filfaeril Obarskyr and Alusair Obarskyr, they decided instead to leave Marsember entirely.
Shortly after they boarded a ship bound for Sembia, continuing to banter throughout the trip. While on the ship, they witnessed a fang dragon with a swath of rainbow-colored scales on its flank, which interrupted one of their fights. Surth considered leaving for Yhaunn, Westgate, or the Pirate Isles, to get away from Red Wizards Bezrar was just glad they wouldnt see Harnrim Starangh again. Unknown to them, Harnrim was aboard the same ship, transformed into a ballast-stone, also trying to escape scrutiny.