King Azoun Obarskyr IV (
Azoun was a handsome man just under  with brown eyes, brown gray-streaked hair, graying mustache. He was stocky, muscular, and physically fit for the man of his age who kept a rigorous exercise regimen.
In his youth, Azoun was a rebel who cared nothing for boring politics and preferred adventuring with his friends. He often missed those days of no responsibilities and no weight of the crown. Even though Azoun remained an idealist, he would perform his duties and forge alliances when necessary. He punished criminals harshly but was a generous ruler and defender.
Azoun was content to be in battle, and despite the risks to himself, would not allow himself to be excluded from any combat that might arise in his presence. Although, being ready and eager, Azoun was an experienced and talented tactician who was using the troops, their skills, enemies weaknesses, and the battle terrain.
Surviving countless assassination attempts, King Azoun was never unarmed, he often had a long silver magical +4 dagger tucked away in his boot, along with other magical items ready for every occasion.
When making public addresses, Azoun preferred the term "Cormyte" over the more usual "Cormyrean" or "Cormyrian".
Azouns court in Suzail was famous across the realms for its refinement. The King was an avid patron of the arts, a poet, a musician, and he especially loved drama.
King Azoun Obarskyr IV was skilled in fighting with heavy lances, long swords, broadswords, horsemans flails, and daggers.
On top of his combat skills, the King was adept at falcon-training, horseback riding, knew etiquette and heraldry. He also was a good mandolin player.
Azouns sword was contained in a very tatty scabbard. He had a collection of magical swords to choose from, but most commonly used were his vorpal sword and a +4 defender. When in battle, he wore his magical +5 full plate armor and a +2 shield adorned with an image of a purple dragon on a black background.
When not on the battlefield, he wore his bracers of defense, a +3 ring of protection, and a ring of free action.
He had a brown scarf given to him by Filfaeril as a token of luck. Azoun also had a hollow metal sphere that, upon spoken command, could transform into a key to unlock a secret vault in the depths of the royal palace. It is one of only five, the others possessed by Vangerdahast, the queen and princesses.
Being the king of Cormyr, Azoun Obarskyr IV could get a hold of almost any item, equipment, combat beast, or a siege machine. He could easily commission rare and magical items to be created when needed.
Azouns wife was Queen Filfaeril Selazair. He had two daughters Tanalasta Obarskyr, the advisor, and Alusair Obarskyr, the adventuress. and Beatrice. His father was Rhigaerd II. He had an heir in his grandson, Azoun V. He also had a son, Foril, who was assassinated by the Fire Knives before his third year in 1334 DR.
King Azoun could often be found in the company of his trusted friends, advisors, and adventuring companions of youth, Vangerdahast Aeiulvana the Royal Court Wizard, Dimswart the Sage of Suzail, and Winefiddle the cleric of Tymora. Together they were known as the Kings Men back in the day.
Circa 1367 DR, Azouns envoy to Lord Sarp Redbeard and Cormyrs southeast, from Wheloon to Thunderstone, was Grodoveth, a disgraced noble who was nevertheless related by marriage to Beatrice.
In his rebellious youth, Azoun Obarskyr IV, under disguise, joined a band of adventurers called the Kings Men. During that time he created a life-long friendship with Dimswart the mage, and Winefiddle the cleric.
The Royal Court Wizard, a friend, and a teacher - Vangerdahast Aeiulvana often helped the young royalty to slip away to have his adventures, but just as often he ended up having to venture out to bring the rebel home. Many a time that coincided with the Kings Men being in deep trouble and the court wizard arriving just in time to rescue the unruly youth.
Azoun married Filfaeril on Eleint 2 of 1329 DR. Because of how many rumors persisted of his womanizing lifestyle until that time, he made a public renouncement of his earlier ways.
In 1334 DR Azouns 2-year-old son Foril was assassinated by the Fire Knives, this broke the young kings heart.
In 1335 DR, then-young Azoun confronted by Zhentarim assassins. During that adventure, he met the thief Scoril "Shadowhawk" Cimber and his son Artus, who later became a Harper agent. The thief and his son attempted to rob Azoun but instead were attacked by the Zhents. Artus father was captured and the young men were forced to work together to save him and defeat the magical assassins.
He officially took the throne of Cormyr in 1336 DR.
By 1341 DR Azoun succeeded in driving the Fire Knives out from Cormyr after an assassination of a local lord. The Fire Knives were pushed all the way across Dragonmere to Westgate. This is where the assassins met the evil wizard Cassana and started financing her work.
In 1352 DR, the Usurper King Gondegal attempted to establish a kingdom centered in the city of Arabel. Azoun led the army of Purple Dragons to reclaim the city. In all, Gondegal had power over Arabel for just eight days.
In 1357 DR Cassana created a living construct that the Fire Knives programmed to assassinate King Azoun. The living construct escaped and gained consciences and became known as Alias of the Azure Bonds. The magical bonds still controlled her and eventually, she attempted to assassinate a young noble Giogioni Wyvernspur who jokingly pretended to be the King. Azoun was supposed to be present at the event where the assassination attempt occurred, he and Vangerdahast questioned the eyewitnesses, one of whom was Giogi himself. The young Wyvernspur ended up negotiating on behalf of the ancient red dragon Mistinarperadnacles Hai Draco who was searching for Alias at the time. King Azoun negotiated the dragons departure from her lair in the vicinity of Suzail and gained an agent tasked with uncovering Alias whereabouts. Giogi continued taking missions from King Azoun after this debacle for years to come.
In 1360 DR Azoun faced with the Tuigan Horde when the newly assembled force menaced Western Faerûn with conquest. The king thought it his duty to assemble the forces of the western lands to confront and stop the nomad horde before they were to massacre the population. Acting against Vangerdahasts council, the King assembled the force of twelve thousand soldiers from Cormyr, the Dales, Sembia, Tantras, Hillsfar, the Living City, and Earthfast. More troops came from a strenuous alliance with Zhentil Keep, and hired mercenaries through imposed shield tax. Neighboring countries also chipped in with coin, mercenaries, and magic users to bolster the Crusades forces. The final count of 30,000 men on Azuns side versus 100,000 horselords of Yamun Khahan. Not all citizens of Cormyr supported the war campaign, notably, the Trappers Guild publicly opposed the Kings discussion. During the Azouns address to the citizens of Cormyr, and rally to arms, a Trapper used a fireball spell scroll to unsuccessfully attempt to assassinate the King in the view of everyone assembled.
Alusair, Azoun IV, and Vangerdahast consult prior to the battle with the Tuigan Horde.|left
The forces clashed between the cities of Telflamm and Tammar. Azoun and Vangerdahast attempted to unsuccessfully parley with the Khahans and the battle started the following day. Azoun was shot in the leg by one of the horselords. The Crusades cavalry was almost completely destroyed but they managed to reduce the Yamun Khahans forces by a thousand. Princess Alusair Obarskyr took command of the Crusades forces and commanded to retreat and regroup in the Forest of Lethyr, knowing that it would disadvantage the Tuigan horse-riders. The second day of battle was won thanks to Alusairs leadership, dwarven trap-making for the Horde riders, and Cormyrian War Wizards illusions that kept the traps hidden. King Azoun confronted Yamun Khahan by singling his war banner out and allowing him to penetrate the Crusades defenses. The confusion and tireless assault followed, the Khahan was surrounded by now unmasked traps. The Horselord managed to kill the leader of the dwarven forces, but in the end, he was defeated and killed himself by Azouns hand. With the fall of their leader, the Horde was broken and retreated back to the east. The Crusades cost was steep, 20,000 men out of 30,000 survived.
Azoun took an interest in the canal project began in 1364 DR by the city-state of Innarlith that connected the Lake of Steam to the Nagaflow, and thus connected the Sea of Fallen Stars to the oceans of Toril. The canal would have enabled Cormyr to trade with the western states without needing to take overland routes that were harassed by the Zhentarim. He sent an ambassador and funds to support the work of its construction.
For the Iron Thrones misdeeds, Azoun made a proclamation in the , ordering that the mercantile organization be banished from Cormyr for a period of one year, until the winter of 1368 DR, because of their various crimes. On his orders, their officers were shut and their goods confiscated, while any caravans found to be working for or with them would be seized. While the Iron Throne declared it would appear, Vangerdahast scoffed at the notion.
In the , Azoun was on a hunt with Baron Thomdor, Duke Bhereu, and Aunadar Bleth when he was poisoned by a magical abraxus in the abraxus affair, putting him in a coma-like state.
280px|King Azoun IVs body lying in his tomb.
King Azoun died at the culmination of The Goblin War that started in 1370 DR and ended in 1371 DR. The dragon Nalavarauthatoryl amassed an army of orcs, grodd goblins, the seven ghazneths to attack Cormyr. Azoun perished in his final battle with Nalavarauthatoryl.
In accordance with ancient Cormyrean customs and suggestions by Vangerdahast Aeiulvana for morale, the magically preserved bodies of Azoun IV and Tanalasta Obarskyr were paraded throughout the capital. War Wizards, loyal nobles, and Royals were part of the retinue, as was Alusair Obarskyr, clad in her blood-caked armours still. Azoun IV was placed in the Royal Crypt below the palace, with his daughter by his side. The coffins were warded with powerful magics by the Royal Magician. 
There were many rumors and tales of Azouns encounters with the opposite sex, mostly from before his marriage, and there were a number of children as a result of these relations, but the matter was not discussed openly or officially.
The face of Azoun IV was on sets of nesting dolls called "Heroes and Rulers" that was sold by Auroras Whole Realms Catalogue for 2 gold pieces. The same catalog featured puppets that bore an uncanny and truly "coincidental" resemblance to the King of Cormyr, for 2 gold pieces as well.
Auroras Whole Realms Catalogue also sold chess sets themed after the Horde and the Crusade for 25 gp. The set featured King Azouns likeness as well as Lady Alusairs and Vangerdahasts.