Bael ( ) was an archdevil duke of the Nine Hells who served the Lord of the Third, Mammon. He was one of Hells greatest tacticians, named the Bronze General for the hue of his skin and various military accomplishments, but he was impeded in his ascendance to the rank of archduke by his lack of political prowess.
Bael was sometimes depicted as either a toad, cat, male human, or some combination of the three, but none of these reflected his actual appearance.
In reality, Bael resembled a muscular, golden-skinned humanoid somewhere over  in height.
Baels passion laid squarely in the art of war, and he was apathetic to matters outside of that sphere. He had a lust for battle, and his primary interest had always been leading legions, but he was more than a mindless marauder.
However, Bael still had his ambitions, and was frustrated by his inability to ascend further up Hells hierarchy. While they would never do so directly, critics of Bael called him naïve, More clever and governmentally adept rivals constantly constrained his attempts to rise in rank.
Bael had truesight, as well as the ability to perceive the corruption and alignment of those he looked at (unless disguised by undetectable alignment or a similar spell). His bite was poisonous, stealing away the vitality of those bitten.
Bael naturally regenerated from his injuries and resisted both acid and the cold, although the latter, along with radiant power, halted his regeneration. He could also radiate a dreadful aura of fear several feet around himself.
Bael had access to various spell-like abilities, including charm person, inflict wounds, invisibility, shapechange, teleport, and windwalk. When drawn to fight, he used suggestion to lure others into range before unleashing inflict wounds on an entire group. Those who best resisted would be subjected to his dominate monster spell-like ability, which he could once or twice a day. Once per day, he could create a symbol of stunning, and could summon somewhere between 1-6 barbazu with a high level of success.
Baels personal weapon was an enchanted morningstar with a long, bronze handle. The infernal weapon could magically extend in length, going from  whenever the wielder so desired, as well as burn and wither its victims. If Bael actually had to use his morningstar, he likely considered things to have gone horribly wrong, but he would nonetheless charge into battle and hammer any enemy in his great reach.
Bael also wore a suit of bronze, full-plate armor made in an ancient style and enchanted to better fortify the wearer.
Also among Baels possessions was a ring of telekinesis and a rod of negation.
Like Mammons other vassal dukes, Bael ruled stretches of land far from the King of Greeds central domicile. His domain in the disgusting marsh of Minauros consisted of acres of volcanic ridges and lifeless, ashen woodlands somewhere between the layers uplands and the swamplands where the prisoners were held.
In a tumultuous time where so many archdevils suffered a loss in station, Mammon had never been usurped, a testament to Baels battle prowess. The Viscount was reliant on the Bronze Generals acumen to protect his property,
There were those who sought to advance Baels place in the hierarchy, and among them was Focalor, Mammons seneschal and leader one of the three main factions working against the paranoid and treacherous Lord of Avarice. but did not plan to take the power of archduke for himself. Rather, Focalor worked with Glwa, Mammons new consort to replace Glasya, in order to put Bael in a position where he would have to usurp Mammon, allowing him to become the power behind the throne and puppet Bael to advance his own plans. For his part, Baels plot to overthrow Mammon involved the supplanting of Focalor first.
For everyone who would help Bael advance, there were many more who sought to exploit or discredit him, a group in which Mammons lesser commanders, Caarcrinolaas and Melchon, fell into. The two conniving wretches lead the third court faction that detested Bael and sought to murder him, seize his forces, and use them to overthrow Mammon.
Bael had command over the most troops in Minauros, leading 66 companies (over twenty-thousand) of barbazu with tactical genius.
Bael was glad to spare those he bested, although this was because he preferred to make servants out of enemies. Those who pledged their allegiance (and souls) to him would be bound to serve him, an offer of corruption over death that he presented to almost all beings with the notable, primary exception of demons. The Bronze General also welcomed mortals who could give him a political edge, recruiting such individuals and relying on their representation on his behalf in Mammons court while he pursued his own interests.
Despite, or possibly because of, his disinterest in all but warfare, Bael had a small cultist following. His worshipers called him, rather than Asmodeus, the King of Hell, and the most deluded diabolists went so far as to believe that he was the master of all devils and infernal powers. Some occultists and supernatural texts (the Book of Fire for example) claimed that he had given the invisibility spell to mortals, although magic scholars and arcane practitioners hotly and universally denied this accusation of diabolical origin.
Over the eons of the Blood War, countless opportunities for power and prestige presented themselves to the devils of the Nine Hells. Bael seized upon many of these chances, and received fame and respect for his successes.