Baerovus Azoun Obaskyr Brian Cortijo (January, 2012). “Cormyr Royale The Royal Court of the Forest Kingdom”. Dungeon #198 (Wizards of the Coast) (198), p. 9., more commonly known as Prince Baerovus, was a Crown Prince of Cormyr and son of King Irvel. On Nightal 5 of 1486 DR he abdicated the throne in favor of his sister Princess Raedra after the death of his father on Uktar 14 and grandfather on Eleint 5 of the same year.
As a young man, Baerovus was described as being of slim build, with long hair that he hid his face behind, save for official appearances of the royal family. He was meek and did not desire the throne. He disliked magic and the battlefield. He liked animals, tending to wounded ones he found in royal hunts. He had a particular interest in light horses, enjoying a large stable of them. The calamite breed was his personal favorite.  
The prince was a bad swordsman, and wasnt considered useful wielding any blade other then a hunting knife. However, his skills with bow and arrow knew no equal among his royal kin. 
Baerovus Azoun Obaskyr was born in 1454 DR, he was the son of then Crown Prince Irvel Obaskyr and his wife, Ospra Goldfeather Brian Cortijo (January, 2012). “Cormyr Royale The Royal Court of the Forest Kingdom”. Dungeon #198 (Wizards of the Coast) (198), p. 18.Brian R. James (July 2008). “Backdrop Cormyr” (PDF). In Chris Youngs ed. Dragon #365 (Wizards of the Coast), p. 46.. Throughout his youth and even into adulthood, Baerovus lived during the reign of his paternal grandfather, King Foril I, being the second in-line prince, only preceded in the line of succession by his father, Irvel.
Even during those years, Baerovus did not desire to rule Cormyr, but up until at least 1479 DR, he wasnt planning to abdicate the throne when it passed to him. He secretly hoped that when his grandfather eventually passed, that his father would live for very long, and that perhaps his future children, or those of his sister Raedra, could then succeed him .
Baerovus hopes didnt come to pass. He became the Crown Prince when King Foril I died in his sleep in Eleint 5, 1486 DR and his father became the king. Despite his previous intentions, when King Irvel died on Uktar 14 that same year during the siege of Suzail, Baerovus abdicated the throne in favor of Princess Raedra, who became Queen of Cormyr . 
CategoryHumans
CategoryPrinces and princesses
CategoryInhabitants of Cormyr
CategoryInhabitants of Interior Faerûn
CategoryInhabitants of Faerûn
CategoryInhabitants of Toril
CategoryInhabitants
CategoryInhabitants of the Eastern Heartlands
ka5wisrmvvwetxpup5w2e9h8sjdzudu