cartwright
Baldemar Thurlow was the Speaker of Lonelywood of the Ten Towns in the late 13 century DR.
Speaker Thurlow was a human man with a fair skin tone. He wore gray noblemans finery.
Baldemar was an opportunist who preferred to settle things swiftly and quietly, mostly because he was bad at negotiating and bargaining. He did not tolerate criticism from Tybald Dunn, a local cooper, and threatened to withhold caravan contracts from him.
Baldemar Thurlow begin his career as a cartwright who made his fortune by supplying caravan wagons to costers in the far Northwest Faerûn. With that money, he entered an arranged marriage with Arden Thurlow. After the happy couple relocated to Lonelywood, he became a self-appointed representative of all the tradesmen of Lonelywood who took on dealing with the caravans that passed the town and in turn, it led to him being elected the town speaker. His interest in the position was purely motivated by coin. Baldemar was faced with a great challenge when the barbarian king Wylfdene united the Uthgardt tribes of the Bear, the Elk, and the Great Whale to drive the southern peoples of the Ten-Towns away from Icewind Dale in the . Lonelywood became the prime target for the barbarian army that broke camp not far from it. The Ten Towns showed little confidence in Baldemars political and negotiation skills and sent their own representative to deal with Wylfdenes horde. Instead of trying to settle the crisis peacefully, Baldemar, through the councilman of Targos, hired an assassin to end Wylfdenes life and threat to Lonelywood. Purvis, the assassin, however, was unable to fullfil the contract. When the word of the assassin got out, the barbarian camp doubled the guard, making Wylfdene unreachable. As the adventurers investigated the threat, Wylfdenes true identity was revealed, and the barbarian was put to the sword. Unwilling to gain the reputation of a failure, Purvis assassinated Speaker Thurlow, wife Arden Thurlow, and just needed to finish off the last witnesses of his failure – the Heroes of Icewind Dale. It was unknown if the confrontation had taken place, but if it did, Purviss life wouldve been forethought.