Banak was the most powerful evil priest in all the Bloodstone Lands as of the mid-to-late 14 century DR.
Banak was thoroughly evil, and was a cruel, obsessive, and ambitious man. He was prone to legendarily violent outbursts. His allies suspected that he had begun to lose touch with reality following the banishment of his god.
His specialty was the domain of the undead. The evil priest would cast animate dead on whatever corpses he could acquire, and often used his powerful staff to create new corpses. His powers were said to be great enough that he could raise small armies all by himself.
Banak possessed the staff of the adder. Prior to the defeat and banishment of his god from the Bloodstone Lands, he also possessed the Amulet of Orcus, which allowed him to summon armies of undead and fiends.
Banak was a leader of the Cult of the Goats Head, and one of the top three commanders in the Citadel of Assassins alongside the Grandfather of Assassins and the archmage Knellict, although he frequently clashed with them over differing priorities.
He had made a sworn enemy of Gareth Dragonsbane, and especially of his priestly companion, Friar Dugald.
Banak was an exceptionally powerful cleric that roamed the Bloodstone Lands the mid-to-late 14 century DR.
After Gareth Dragonsbane and his party banished his demon patron, Orcus, from Faerûn in the , Banak lost much of his power, and could only cast spells of intermediate power at most. Even so, Banak was experienced enough to remain a great threat to goodly folk of Vaasa and Damara, although none knew the source of his continuing power. While his allies at the time were focused on consolidating wealth, Banak wished to raise an army and once again attempt to conquer the Bloodstone Lands, and this obsession seemed to be driving him mad.
As of the , Banak remained active in Vaasa, and worked to try and raise an army among Zhengyis old minions. By this time, he was declaring himself to be the "son and heir" of the Witch-King.Banak is not named explicitly in A Grand Tour of the Realms (1993), however the description of "a wild-eyed priest of evil who is seeking to unite the non-human tribes" most closely matches descriptions of Banak and his goals as described in The Bloodstone Lands (1989).