Bane (
When summoned, Bane had a dark and rather shadowy appearance with a resemblance of dark armor and his tell-tale jeweled, dark gauntlet. He emanated an aura of vast power and cruel intelligence.
Bane was a wholly malevolent and brutal deity that distanced himself from mere mortals, preferring to reign over his followers from afar. He savored the terror he instilled in others and the hatred that formed in mortals hearts, utilizing this strife to gain greater control over the Realms.
He embodied the principles of ambition and control and believed that the strong had not only the right, but the duty, to rule over the weak. He favored those with drive and courage, often aiding those who sought to establish order or conquer new territories. While he was seen as a savior in some regions, his teachings also led to dictatorships and the promotion of slavery.
thumb|left|150px|The Black Hand of Bane
When confronted with a potential battle, Bane would possess an individual and force their body to take on a twisted and monstrous form with leathery black skin and powerful claws that could rend flesh and metal alike. He gained any powers they held in their life, and protected his host from psionic control.
Unlike other deities Bane possessed no divine weapon, rather he favored his own gauntleted right hand. He was sometimes accompanied by a fiendish raven called Koravis.
In the Great Wheel cosmology Banes divine realm, the Black Bastion, could be found in Avalas, the first layer of Acheron. or as it was previously known, the Barrens of Doom and Despair.
While Bane believed himself the rightful ruler of all the planes and could not tolerate subservience to anyone, 
Besides allies, Bane also had servants such as Bhaal and his own son Iyachtu Xvim during his first life as a god, Malar was also known to work along with Bane at times.
Bane was the former lover of the goddess Kiputytto. He attempted to steal her divine power during their amorous encounters, but was ultimately unsuccessful.
But as numerable as his allies, Bane had many enemies as well. For a time, Banes most hated foe was the goddess of magic, Mystra, whose power he coveted.
thumb|right|250px|A worshiper of Bane.
Among the evil gods, Banes church was among the most stable and powerful. While there was a time when the god encouraged sectarianism and violent disputes, that time has long since passed and today the gods Faithful were as likely to solve their disputes through reasonable debate as through show of force. That being said, Banes church was no less ruthless than that of Cyric or Shar and it obeyed a strict hierarchy extending from the gods most powerful worshipers to his weakest ones, with the god himself the lord of everything they did and, though worshipers of Bane came from every station in life, they all knew to whom they owed their blessings, ready to turn it over to the Black Lord at any time.
Banite customs were often quite spartan in nature and the gods followers celebrated no holidays in honor of their god, instead showing their gratitude to him through service and the ritual torture and sacrifice of sentient beings offensive to the god. Priests of Bane prayed for their spells at midnight, pledging their eternal loyalty and service to the Black Hand, knowing full well that the penalty for failure or disloyalty was death.
The church of Bane increased greatly in recent history due to his return. With this he gained nearly all the worshipers of Iyachtu Xvim, his half-demon son, as well as some of Cyric. Many of those among the gods worshipers were fighters, monks or blackguards,
His clerics could be recognized by the black-enameled gauntlet worn on one fist. They were able to cast spells against undead, such as a flare of greenish phosphorescence which seared smaller undead or an even fiercer radiance that seared ghouls and phantoms.
Although Bane was worshiped all over Faerûn, his presence was strongest in the Moonsea region, where, as of 1479 DR, the Church of Bane had its headquarters the House of the Black Lord in Mulmaster. During the same time, his Church was the only one allowed in Thay. Other known temples include
* Black Altar – Zhentil Keep
* Dark God Reformed – Voonlar
* Dark Shrine – Zhentil Keep
* Lyceum of the Black Lord – Phlan
* Temple of Bane (Snowmantle) – Daggerdale
Like many of the younger gods, Bane was once a mortal human. Little was known about the Black Hands past, not even precisely when it was he lived, but the adventurer became known when he forged an alliance with two other mortal beings Bhaal and Myrkul. Together, the three forged a pact of mutual aid and ambition together they would conquer not just the world, but the heavens, becoming gods unto themselves. They targeted specifically the powerful god of death, Jergal, who was among the most powerful of Torils deities at the time.
thumb|left|150px|An archaic holy symbol of Bane, predating the Era of Upheaval 
The group, known as the Dead Three, soon became well-known to Jergal, surmounting every obstacle thrown their way. They obtained magical power and even destroyed a primordial in the . They served as generals to an army comprising forces from three human nations, savage gnolls, and other races from the Moonsea North, slaying Maram of the Great Spear at the Monument of the Ancients in the Frozen Forest, taking the fallen primordials essence, and dividing it up equally amongst themselves. Unbeknown to them, this was all Jergals doing, for the god had grown tired of his crown,
When the time came to confront Jergal, the god of death tricked the Dead Three into turning on one another, each desiring the others power. Jergal then intervened and proposed to divide up his portfolio for them, based upon a game of knucklebones, which Bane promptly won. Bane claimed for his prize governance over the sphere of strife, believing he would be able to rule over all of Toril in this way. As it turned out, however, Bane would not only have to contend with Bhaal and Myrkul, who became powerful gods in of themselves, but with the rest of the divine, who would become his most hated foes.
thumb|right|250px|The holy symbol of Bane, during the Era of Upheaval.
Although Bane had many foes, he did find allies in a few gods and in particular continued a working relationship with the other members of the Dead Three, with whom he plotted against his enemies, such as the goddess Mystra. It was during this time that Bane sired a son, Iyachtu Xvim, some say by a tanarri, others by a fallen paladin of good. Xvim resented his father but nonetheless served compliantly as his servant during this period, along with other servants of the Black Hand such as Bhaal. Iyachtu Xvims true purpose, however, would not be revealed until many, many years later.
Eventually, Banes plots backfired against him and in one particularly overambitious gambit, he and Myrkul attempted to steal the Tablets of Fate from Ao the Overgod himself. For this, the two and every other god were banished from their astral dominions to traverse Torils surface in an exercise of humility, precipitating the Time of Troubles. It was Aos hope that through this, the gods would learn not only to be content with what power they had, but to respect the needs and wishes of their worshipers.
However, not all the gods were so willing to learn and all of them tried to regain their divine power as quickly as possible. Bane was among these deities, but unfortunately for him he was slain by the young god Torm on Eleasias 13, 1358 DR near Tantras. Subsequently the majority of Banes power fell from him to the mortal Cyric, who temporarily claimed the powers of all the Dead Three - all of whom perished in the Time of Troubles. A smaller portion fell to his son, Iyachtu Xvim, an eventuality that Bane had anticipated should he himself perish.
When news of his destruction spread across the Realms, at least a score of Faerûnian nations marked the occasion with widespread festivals of thanks and celebration.
thumb|right|300px|Return of Bane
thumb|left|150px|Banes talon symbol
For Bane, it soon became apparent, death was but a temporary setback. Anticipating the possibility of his own death, Bane (like his companion Bhaal) had created a scion for the purpose of his own regeneration. When the time was right Xvim&mdashwho was in fact little more than a cocoon to contain the essence of Bane&mdashburst open into the black and armored figure of Bane, destroying the younger god entirely. This event, which occurred on Midwinter in the Year of Wild Magic, appears to have been in part the work of the lich Szass Tam as well, who performed a summoning the same night. Overnight the Faithful of Xvim, led by the gods Chosen Fzoul Chembryl converted to the worship of their returned master, as did many of Cyrics own worshipers.
After his miraculous resurrection, Bane reestablished his power base, regaining nearly all of his followers from Xvim and Cyric. who had previously worked alongside him before the Time of Troubles.
Bane escaped the Spellplague largely unscathed and, in fact, the cataclysm largely benefited him, removing two of his chief rivals, Mystra and Cyric all at once. In the century that followed Banes power increased only further and the god conquered the goblinoid pantheon, bringing Maglubiyet and Hruggek to heel before him. By the end of the Era of Upheaval Bane was as powerful&mdashand as dangerous&mdashas he had ever been.
In the late 15 century DR, following the events of the Second Sundering when most deities withdrew their direct influence from Toril, Bane along with the returned Myrkul and Bhaal remained behind as quasi-deities. Though he was still able to influence events over Faerûn, Bane was essentially trapped in a mortal form.