Bawr was a pirate captain of the Narwhal and a member of the Refuge Bay Trading Company who traveled between Baldurs Gate and Chult circa 1362 DR.
Captain Bawr appeared to be a sweet and petite young woman
She wore expensive and beautiful black shoes and silk pantyhose, a white blouse, a white loose skirt,, delicate gloves, and a red hooded cloak.
Upon her transformation into the lizard or dragon-like shape, her head became covered in hard ridges, her face shifted to remain that of a crocodile, and red scales covered the entirety of her form. The snapping maw was filled with razor-sharp teeth. Her slender and petite appendages bulged with muscles become thick, like those of a mountain dwarf. Her body grew and ripped through most of the clothes she wore if the transformation was full.
Bawr was quickly bored by mundanity. Her voice turned from sweet to coldly malicious upon even a hint of insubordination or disagreement.
She kept a strict chain of command on her ship. She inspired awe, respect, and feat via her strange nature, and short-tempered outbursts. Bawrs crew often spoke of their Captain in hushed tones but always favorably. The crew witnessed Bawr terrifying transformations, triggered by anger, and tried to keep her in good spirits whatever the cost.
She trusted her first mate, Master Quiracus, to run the ship during the day when she stated below the deck. At night, Bawr was helming the ship and could always be found on deck.
Apart from Bawrs charisma, her main weapon was her mysterious dragon lineage. She could transform into her lizard-like terrifying red bulky humanoid, monstrous form when she was angry. Her attitude and anger levels were manifested in her growing in size and her skin turning reddish hue, only to grow red scales when she went into a rage.
Captan Bawr was the owner of her ship, the Narwhal ever since she took it by force and until her demise in Aremags hungry maw.
Bawr liked to keep her cabin furnished and decorated gaudily. The cabins centerpiece was an intricately woven expensive Turmish carpet.
Captain Bawr was a mysterious person. Not much of her past was known about her history. According to her loyal crew, the woman was a pirate active in the Inner Sea sometime before 1362 DR. She gathered manpower and vessels to build a small pirate fleet there. She had forcefully taken Narwhal from the hands of Cormyrean Crowns Navy. Soon after, the resourceful woman stroke a deal with the Black Network of Zhentil Keep. Zhents provided Bawr with a labor of a group of strong but dimwitted giants who carried Narwhal and her new crew from the land-locked Inner Sea to the Sword Coast.
Getting access to the vast open seas off the Sword Coast, Bawrs ship operated both as a pirate, and an expensive cargo vessel, member of the Refuge Bay Trading Company of Chult. The Trading Company used Bawr to transport trade goods to the Chultan coastal outposts and moved highly valued teak and ivory back to the Sword Coast.
In 1362 DR, two adventurers purchased a passage on Bawrs ship from Baldurs Gate to Chult. Artus Cimber and Hydel Pontifax, members of the Society of Stalwart Adventurers in search of the legendary Ring of Winter. Unimpressed with the passengers, Bawr ordered Pontifax to serve as the ships medic and Cimber to serve under her third in command, Nelock. Unbeknownst to the two, Bawr also transported two more guests, villainous Kaverin Ebonhand and his wizard aide Phyrra al-Quim, both of the Cult of Frost infamy. Kaverin influenced Bawrs first mate Quiracus to serve him and eventually steal Artus Cimbers journal and attempt to get the adventurer killed.
Closer to the end of the voyage, off the shores of the Refuge Bay, Bawr was confronted by a dragon turtle Aremag who demanded a tribute even though that was in violation of the agreement Bawr and the Refuge Bay Trading Company made with the creature. Angered, Bawr decided to feed Artus Cimber to the beast as part of a payment extorted by Aremag. That was due to Quiracus manipulation, placing unwitting Artus in the way of the Captains blind anger. Unfortunately for Bawr, Artus wore an enchanted Mulhorandi medallion at the time that housed a powerful guardian phantom Skuld. Triggered by the obvious threat to its Master, Skuld appeared just in time to be attacked by a fully transformed red draconic monstrous Bawr. The Captain was no match for the Mulhoradi spirit. She was tossed overboard, where Aremag happily swallowed her, accepting it as the part of the passage fee the dragon turtle demanded.