Beldrune was a sage of the 8 century DR. He was sometimes an actor, too.
Tabarast and Beldrune sometimes got into sesquipedalian talk, using long or old words. The two were known to flirt with each other.
Beldrune did not believe the gods handed down spells, but he was more reverent than Tabarast. He could sure drink a lot.
Beldrune used a worry stone to calm himself down sometimes. He was sensitive about his manner of dress.
As of , they had spent years at Moonshorn Tower attempting to recover old magical lore.
In , they were selling entry to their magic classes for a gold piece per attendant.
Beldrune had some hair, and was dressed in a scarlet silk tunic that was adorned with cloth-of-gold dragons with emeralds for eyes.
He wasnt a great rider.
Beldrune was able to cast some manner of spell that allowed him to scry on distant lands.
Beldrune had a worry stone.
Tabarast and Beldrune had long worked together Tabarast was the elder of the two.
Beldrune favored one of his students, Maglast.
Beldrune had once acted in a performance of "The Stormy Knight", where he played the Second Undergardener. According to Tabarast, hed probably never been on an adventure, though Tabarast had known adventure. The two of them had been to Ripplestones at some point prior to .
As of the , Beldrune and Tabarast had been in Moonshorn Tower for some time, studying the texts there. They had agreed not to broach the subject of Chosen of Mystra, but did so anyway, speculating idly as to the signs claimed by the priests of Mystras Mantle in Haramettur that Elminster Aumar was once again walking the lands. They had been at this task for years.
By the spring of that year, Tabarast and Beldrune noticed a stranger walking into Moonshorn unknown to them, this was the Elminster theyd heard about. Though they turned away from the stranger until he left, there were burning letters left in the documents he read they took those as a sign of Mystras direct intervention, and decided to pursue Elminster, and be witnesses in his wake. They rode after him on mules. On the way, they were soon passed by Ilbryn Starym, who was also in pursuit of Elminster.
They reached the Castle of the Lady, where Elminster Aumar apprenticed under the sorceress Dasumia at some point before the , by which point they were already observing the comings and goings of the two mages from one or more hidden positions near the castle. They continued to spy on the castle until Beldrune scried on Nethra, guided by a dream that he considered an omen of Mystra, learning of the coronation of Dasumia and Elminsters new position as the Court Mage almost as soon as that event happened. Before they left, they clashed with Ilbryn Starym and Tabarast humbled him in spell-battle, but they did share with him the whereabouts of Elminster. They remained in Nethra afterwards during the last day that Dasumia and Elminster remained in town, they were at the Goblet of Shadows, a local tavern. They drank a lot there.
By , they had abandoned their Elminster search, and had settled somewhere near Starmantle. There, one day, Tabarast came across a rejuvenation spell in an empty page of his spellbook Beldrune attested to feeling rejuvenated by it. for quite some time at that point, until they were commissioned by a Harper, secretly the god Azuth, to hunt after Elminster, whom he was seeking.
They made a short stop for food at the Fair Maid, a tavern in Ripplestones, town where they nearly rode down Baerdagh, a local elderly man, and then were joined by Caladaster Daermree, another local elderly man and former wizard, who agreed to guide them to nearby ruins where he was almost certain Elminster would turn up.
Azuth protected the three wizards from the destruction that ensued. Then, upon the death of Saeraede, who was struck down by Ilbryn Starym after he had burst from hiding to attack, Azuth held back the explosion that resulted from Saeraedes death throes. Azuth then vanished together with Elminster, leaving the three mages awed and briefly bewildered. They rambled shortly, and then found among the rubble three gowns that Saeraede had stolen previously.
Afterwards, they headed  for the Fair Maid, where they had some drinks, showed around the dresses, and talked about their latest adventure. Beldrune embellished heavily, claiming that it was their spells that had saved the day and that Azuth had told them so. Tabarast added that Azuth had told them theyd earned the magical robes they were showing off, though Azuth had said nothing of the sort. Sharindala, a local undead sorceress, later joined them at the tavern briefly, before departing with Caladaster, but said everything theyd said about Azuth was true.