Beldarm Truesilver was a member of the Truesilver family in the late 12 and early 13 centuries DR. As declared by the prolific but somewhat dubious historian Volothamp Geddarm, Beldarm also was the secret identity of the Hullack Hawk.
Beldarm was a husky man with brown hair that refused to stay neat. He was afflicted with bad skin that left his face pockmarked with many nevi and sores. His broken nose also spoiled what might have been a handsome face.
He had a sense of humor and tried to maintain a positive outlook.
Beldarm was an accomplished warrior.
He was mainly concerned with pulling his family out of financial trouble in order not to lose their ancestral home.
Beldarm was once approached by an agent of Sembia with an offer of a large amount of gold to betray King Pryntaler whom they wanted to assassinate. Beldarm took the money but the transaction was overheard by lady-in-waiting Auleethaea Cormaeril who rushed to tell Queen Alvandira. The Queen and a contingency of guards went to arrest Beldarm for treason but were told by a servant that he had gone to an audience with the King. The Queen and her armsmen burst into the royal apartments on high alert and were greeted by the sight of Beldarm and Pryntaler discussing matters over a drink.
Beldarm had already confessed to the King that he had taken the bribe to help his impoverished family but forthwith had come to the King with news of the plot and offered to surrender himself to the dungeons or to help turn the tables on the assassin, whichever the Kind desired.
Based on the diaries of Auleethaea Cormaeril and other research in the latter half of the 14 century, Volo believed that Beldarm Truesilver was the Hullack Hawk—a brigand that terrorized and set fire to the estates of Sembian merchant families Estcrar and Palindoemyn, and looted no less than six Sembian warehouses. The wealth from these raids was estimated to be mostly in coin and trade bars worth more than 300,000 gold pieces.
Beldarm was allegedly in league with or supported by Althallan Crownsilver and Donder Cormaeril in a scheme to pit two enemies of Cormyr against each other. The Hullack Hawk was so named because after a raid he fled in the direction of Hullack Forest
As for the treasure stolen by the Hawk, he was forced abandoned it in the verges of Hullack Forest when he suffered a wound from proud courtier Lord Chanthar Huntsilver. Chanthar called upon Althallan and Donder to help him track down the Hawk but the two conspirators led the search party away from the Hawks hiding place and allowed him to escape.