Beluar was a heroic elf warrior of the Vast in the 7 century DR. He won a famous victory against an orc army to help save the dwarven kingdom of Roldilar.
In the Year of the Bloody Crown, 649 DR, hordes of orcs engulfed the dwarven kingdom of Roldilar in the lands later known as the Vast. Roldilar, fortunately, was aided by its human and elven allies, who would save the dwarves from extinction. One such ally was Beluar, who helped the dwarves in their fight against the orcs.
That year, Deep King Tuir Stonebeard led the dwarven armies against those of the orcs and goblins, but they were defeated at Viperstongue Ford over the River Vesper. Roldilars defenses were broken, and the dwarves retreated to Mount Grimmerfang, ending ultimately in the fall of Roldilar.
However, this fall was delayed thanks to the efforts of Beluar and his forces. They fought the orcs of the Bloody Tongue tribe at Viperstongue Ford and were victorious, forcing the enemy into a rout. As the sun set, they pursued the orcs north and east into an area of rolling, rugged hills. All through the night, they hunted and ran down the orcs, and trampled them with their horses, skewered them with lances, Finally, Beluars forces chased the remaining orcs up the North Road to the village of Maskyrs Eye. Beluar himself killed the last orc on the road in front of the village smithy at dawn.
Beluar later led a small band of elven riders down a pass through the Earthfast Mountains. Shortly north of the village of High Haspur, they were set upon in an orcish ambush, and Beluar and his band all died in battle.
To honor their slain allies, surviving and grateful Roldilarren dwarves built Beluars Tomb in the center of Sarbreenar, once a Roldilarren outpost. They buried Beluar and his soldiers beneath a great mound, later grassed over, and on top they erected a stone obelisk, carved with intricate designs.
Beluar and his exploits were remembered in place and inn names across the Vast. The pass where he and his riders died was known afterwards as Elvenblood Pass. The hills where they defeated the orcs were called Beluars Hunt to commemorate the victory. In High Haspur, another inn was called The Elf in Armor after Beluar.