Bevil Starling was a human fighter of West Harbor in Mere of Dead Men on the Sword Coast North in the late 14 century DR and a companion o the Kalach-Cha.
thumb|left|Bevil in armor with a club.
He had a brawny build.
Bevil was a dependable and kind-hearted person, who tended to do things by the book and would protect his village and its people from any attack. Even Daeghun Farlong conceded him to "have his uses". However, he was a little cautious and was reluctant to leave his home village.
He often helped his mother in looking after their barn and his younger brother and sister.
Bevil served as a member of the militia that defended West Harbor. He was one of the rising stars within the militia.
Bevil, after he was recruited into the Greycloak army at Crossroad Keep, couldve been trained to become a sergeant.
Bevil was a long-time friend to the Kalach-Cha and Amie Fern as they grew up together in West Harbor.
His mother, Retta Starling, passed away after Ammon Jerro and his demons passed through the village. He had three siblings, Lorne Starling, his elder brother Danan starling, his younger brother and a younger sister.
He was frequently picked on by the Mossfeld boys, who once dangled him over the village well.
Bevil was forced to grow up rather quickly, since his father (who may have had an affinity with magic) died when he was very young and his elder brother Lorne left West Harbor shortly after Bevil learned how to walk.
He teamed up with Amie Fern and the Kalach-Cha in the villages annual Harvest Festival. During a raid on West Harbor in the , by a band of duergar and bladelings under the command of the githyanki Sword Stalker Zeearie he was among the many militiamen that helped defend the village. Afterwards, he was ordered by Daeghun, the Kalach-chas foster father, to accompany his friend to the ruins in the mere to retrieve a shard of the Silver Sword of Gith. After returning, he chose to remain in West Harbor in case the raiders returned.
Shortly after the Kalach-Chas departure, Bevil was attacked by unknown assailants while traveling through the swamps. After the assault, he spent most of his time locked indoors and only came out for militia practice he refused to talk about what happened. It was later learned that he was captured and tortured by the githyanki raiders and, unable to withstand the pain, he told them about the shard the Kalach-Cha was carrying and how the party was headed for Neverwinter. His guilt led him to join the Kalach-Cha as a sergeant at Crossroad Keep to make amends and ask for forgiveness. Bevil left for Crossroad Keep, but shortly after West Harbor was destroyed by Ammon Jerro and the rest of his family were lost.
Bevils fate after the war with the King of Shadows depended on the Kalach-Chas influence with him. If their relationship soured, then after the war Bevil would desert the Greycloaks and lead a solitary life at Old Owl Well, plagued by the memories of West Harbor and the war. But if their relation was good and the Kalach-Cha was there for him when he lost his family in West Harbor, he would be inspired and eventually overcome his insecurities to become a commander for the Greycloaks. After the Kalach-Cha went missing after defeating the King of Shadows, Bevil continued to search for his long-lost friend.
Later that year, Bevil was one of the friends who could have attended Kalach-Chas wedding on returning to West Harbor after adventures in Rashemen.