Billi Sharpe was an adventurer and rogue in the village of Daggerford, whose life was profoundly affected by the Witchlight Carnival.
For much of her life Billi lived on her own, content on merely stealing for her livelihood. Once she found her true calling in life however, the young rogue became determined to rescue innocents that were abducted by evil beings.
In her youth, Billi was cursed by a malevolent hag she was compelled to steal whatever she could get away with―which was considerable given her natural abilities―but was stripped of the memories of her younger brother Desmond. 
Billi was an adept thief who could rapidly assess the value of pilferable items. She was skilled at both pickpocketing and lockpicking.
300px|The hag Granny Nightshade abducting Desmond from Billi.
When they were still children living in Daggerford, Billi and Desmond visited the Witchlight Carnival together when it came to town. Entering into the hall of illusions, the pair encountered rows of twisted mirrors that warped their appearances. It was through one these mirrors that the hag, Granny Skabatha Nightshade, reached into the Prime Material plane from the Feywild and snatched Desmond away from his sister. Skabatha left Billi with a riddle, that when solved, would allow her to claim Desmond back for herself. The riddle was What is sister of the sun, yet made for the night? Flame makes her cry, and still she is bright?. Billi was unable to solve the riddle, and suffered the hags curse.
250px|Billi and Clipper dropping into the domain of Hither.
Eight years went by and Billi continued her life as a thief in Daggerford. When the Witchlight Carnival returned to Daggerford, Billi felt compelled to join the celebration. While taking in the sights, enjoying the festivities, and even dabbling in some light pickpocketing, she met a lone harengon named Clipper. The duo went into the same hall of mirrors with Clipper, and saw a vision of Granny Nightshade just as she had before. 
On this occasion, however, Billi and Clipper were pulled through the mirror together, into the domain of Hither. There they encountered fey elves, tamed owlbears, and even a squad of well-armed sprites. When the sprites attacked the duo, in defense of their home, Billi was rendered unconscious. Her injury caused her to recall the lost memory of her and Desmond and their encounter with Granny Nightshade.
350px|Billi, defending her brother from the evil hag.
Determined to rescue her brother, Billi led Clipper into the hags lair in Thither. After breaking into the room, they saw that Desmond had not aged a day, and unfortunately, had no memory of his sister. Granny Nightshade appeared before the duo, refusing to let them take away her dear "Dizzy". With the help of the hags apprentice Mishka, they overcame the evil hags minions, forced her to repeat the riddle, and offered up the correct solution a candle. Desmonds memory came back instantly. Billi, Desmond, and Clipper were able to escape back to Faerûn.
While Billi and Clipper were joyed to have freed Desmond, they knew they could not stop at just freeing him. They knew they must return to Thither, and free Mishka and the other children that were abducted by Granny Nightshade.