Black Geoffrey was one of the small group of mercenaries and adventurers from Cormyr called the Iron Collar Band, active in the early 14 century DR.
Black Geoffrey was a splint mail-clad man with dark hair and a scar across his face—the wound left by a woman scorned and a bottle shattered over Geoffreys face. His weapons of choice was a bastard sword.
Black Geoffrey was a loud and obnoxious man of a foul attitude. He did not tolerate his loud drinking stories being interrupted. Just like his friends and comrades Blanchard Pike and Kickshaw, Geoffrey cared more about drinking than fulfilling his mercenary obligations.
In the , Black Geoffrey and his comrades found themselves in the town of Targos as the city was being besieged by a goblin force that served the Legion of the Chimera. Originally, the trio came from the southern nation of Cormyr where they did mercenary work far from the frigid waters of Maer Dualdon. They fled the Forest Kingdom due to some unrevealed event involving plundering tombs and being shackled by Cormyrs Purple Dragons. The group did not regret the flight. Geoffrey and his mates were not willing to comply with Cormyrs many laws and fees that governed adventuring companies.
Black Geoffrey, Blanchard Pike, Kickshaw, and a priest named Koluhm Bonecutter, all traveled as an "adventuring band" named the Iron Collar Band and eventually reached the unruly city of Luskan. There, they met a raggedy wizard, secretly an agent of the Arcane Brotherhood, Phaen of the Rags, who joined the group and told them of "easy gold" to be made in Targos as the town put out a call for adventurers at the time.
The Iron Collar Band accepted the contract with Targos, the worst possible employment, as far as Black Geoffrey was concerned. On the day when a band of adventurers who would soon become heroes of Targos arrived at Ten Towns, the settlement was attacked, as goblins somehow found a way past palisades and fortifications and started ravaging Targoss docks and warehouses. Geoffrey, Pike, and Kickshaw didnt care for the attack and spent their day drinking and boasting at The Salty Dog Tavern.