The Black Leopard, also known as BauheiThe names "Bauhei" and "Hei Te Pao" both appear to be based on a Chinese translation of "black leopard" "黑豹" or "hēi bào". Moreover, "Pao" means "panther" in the Shou language. and titled the Great Cat
The Black Leopard was neither good nor evil, but rather chaotic, unaligned, and free. He was highly intelligent and wise, and favored strength. While he did not care much for mortals, and interfered in their affairs less and less, he occasionally took interest in the cults and secret societies that bore his name and venerated him, and gave them assistance when he had the whim. However, if they misused his name or conducted evil deeds in his old temples, then he would be stirred to action. As a greater spirit, he was still accorded much respect, as well as fear.
He generally appeared in one of two forms. The first was as a big black leopard. The other was as a man of large size and muscular build, bearing the head of a black leopard.
All who beheld the Black Leopard were struck with awe, unless they had experience of beings of power.
The Black Leopard could shape change into the form of any feline—cats, big cats, and cat-like creatures—and grow to giant size at will. He could also teleport flawlessly thrice a day. Moreover, he cast divine spells as a shukenja would.
According to the cult, the Black Leopard and his faithful are both eternal and immortal.
He fought as a leopard, with his claws and fangs.
The Black Leopard was served by the bauh-yin, who resembled men with the heads of leopards. In life, they were the most devoted followers of the Black Leopard, whether in the cult, society, or elsewhere, and after death became his minions, serving as his scouts and agents.
The Black Leopard was not officially a part of the Celestial Bureaucracy that managed the Celestial Empire.
Long before the Celestial Empire, in ancient times, Bauhei was said to have ruled the lands along the Fenghsintzu River. His reign was based on power and strength, as befitting the violent past, yet it was also marked by wisdom.
However, in time, with the ascendancy of the Celestial Empire and the Nine Immortals, Bauheis power waned.
At last, however, the Black Leopard was even imprisoned by the priests of his own cult, whod grown corrupt on the power hed bestowed on them. In this state, he was known as a great demon panther and he was worshiped as Hei Te Pao. Under their villainous high priest Nan Kung Chi, the cult terrorized the once-peaceful lands of the Fenghsintzu River, extorting treasure and rice from officials, kidnapping innocents for sacrifice, and cruelly slaying all who stood up to them. The earliest written record of the Black Leopard Cult dates from this time, Shou Year −120 (−1370 DR), recording that temples to him stood along the Fenghsintzu River, with the major one at Durkon.
250px|Emperor Tan Chin breaks the Ivory Chain of Pao with the spear Shan Tien and releases the Black Leopard.
Then, in the seventh year of his reign, in Shou Year −120, Emperor Tan Chin of Shou Lung heard rumors of the Black Leopard Cults crimes and decided to destroy the cult. First, he sent seven parties of heroes, one after the other, but none came back alive. But he did learn that the high priest was a mighty wu jen, and unassailable in his lair, and decided he must do it himself. First, he read in the libraries of Kuo Meilan the legend of the demon panther trapped by the ivory chain. Accompanied by his friend, the poet wu jen Kar Wuan, Tan Chin went in secrecy to the main temple in Durkon. But Nan Kung Chi saw them with his magic and surprised them, and summoned the Black Leopard to kill the blood brothers. However, guided by Kar Wuan, Tan Chin cut the Ivory Chain with a sweep of his spear, Shan Tien, and managed to free the Black Leopard, who quickly seized Nan Kung Chi and dragged him screaming into the night. The Second High Priest and the surviving cultists escaped out to sea, but their power was ended (but it would see resurgences). Though the defeat of his cult caused him to lose yet more power, the Black Leopard was pleased as those whod misused his power had been destroyed.
In Shou Year 710 (−540 DR), in Tabot, a miracle was reported when seven lamas from Zotung Keep discovered a man frozen in ice at Mesku Peak. They defrosted the ice, but the man himself melted away, leaving a male leopard cub, alive and well. Thereafter, they raised the cub to adulthood, when it was as large as a horse. One day, it talked, and requested to be set free. Although surprised, the lamas opened the gates, and the leopard returned to Mesku Peak. Thereafter, the new abbot of the Zotung monastery could get the leopards advice on decisions, and since then, many lamas dreamt of a great leopard that gave them guidance on the way to seek enlightenment.While this incident is not explicitly connected to the Black Leopard, it may be inferred from the mention of Black Leopard myths in Tabot.
In Shou Year 2608 (1358 DR), the Black Leopard believed the Dragon Claw was becoming too powerful and tyrannical and so had to be deposed. Thus, he sent a bauh-yin, one of his leopard-headed servants, to guide the adventuring party hired by Ko Ho San in recognition of their effort to protect one of his worshipers in the Black Leopard Society in Tu Lung. If they did not attack it, the silent bauh-yin led the adventurers around the ruins of Balanzia to where they would find a single link of the Ivory Chain of Pao, which would aid them in their battle against the Dragon Claw. Touching it granted one of the adventurers a vision of the links history and of the Black Leopards liberation from the chain.
The Black Leopard was an old spirit who was commonly worshiped in Kara-Turs distant past.
In particular, the last priest of the original Black Leopard Cult survived and reestablished it on Akari Island, but the Black Leopard did not blame those who finally slew him, instead thinking he got what he deserved.
Legends of the Black Leopard were remembered in Fengnao Province of Tu Lung, particularly around Durkon. The common folk living along the Fenghsintzu River bordering the province recalled the Black Leopard as a champion of oppressed peoples who stands up against the powerful. The faith in Tu Lung also lived on in the form of the Black Leopard Society, a secret society.
Meanwhile, the traditional faiths of southern Tabot knew the Great Cat as a power of law and vengeance, and some legends of the Black Leopard were remembered there.