Blaz Merrymar was a strongheart halfling merchant in the village of Shining Falls in the Delimbiyr Vale in the mid-to-late 14 century DR.
He was the husband of Rinyon Merrymar. Together, they had two daughters and four sons, as well a number of nephews.
Blaz owned Merrymars Merchandise, the only general store in Shining Falls. While Rinyon and their children handled the day-to-day running of the store, Blaz procured goods for the store. He had exclusive deals with all the crafters in the village so that only he could sell their wares to outsiders. Fortunately, his reasonable commissions from fellow halflings and fair prices for customers made this monopoly profitable for all.
However, he spent much of his time engaging in a variety of get-rich-quick schemes. In mid-1372 DR, his fixation was helping village leader Deogol Fengrath to discover the dwarven complex thought to lie behind the Shining Falls, after which the village was named. Rinyon thought this was foolish.
He was a good judge of character and a knack for getting customers to pay appropriate prices, such as by guilting them into it. He was skilled in such negotiation and deception.
In the summer of , goods meant for Merrymars Merchandise were raided on the road by bandits, thought to be orcs of the High Forest. Tragically, Blaz and Rinyon lost not only merchandise but also all four of their sons and three of their nephews, leaving the extended family decimated and the store understaffed. Rinyon and her two daughters were left to run it alone while Blaz went on the road as a merchant.
Then, about a month later, Blaz was attacked himself, and not by orcs as hed thought but by a group of goblinoid bandits working for Hekkut and the Hark. While the bugbear Gvrag held him up, their leader, the goblin Skar, beat him and burned his feet with a torch. An hour before twilight, a band of adventurers happened upon the scene, defeated the bandits, and rescued Blaz. Consumed with anger, Blaz urged them to track down and exterminate the rest of the goblin bandits, The adventurers routed the bandits and retrieved the stolen goods, including a silvered short sword belonging to Blazs son, and thereafter were feted as heroes in Shining Falls.