Boonmoppet was a lonely imp merchant who resided in his long-dead masters tower in the Western Farmlands outside of Daggerfordd walls circa 1372 DR.
Typically for an imp, Boonmoppet had a human-looking face, devils horns, and quickly-flopping red bat-like wings.
Less malicious than his kin, Boonmoppet only used his magics in preserved self-defense or to turn away baleful adventurers. He, however, missed his perished master and missed having chats with other sentient beings, with locals not taking kindly to imps.
Just like his master, Boonmoppet kept the company of some evil beings but never went out of his way to harm anyone (apart from dangerous do-gooder adventurers).
Boonmoppet was not just a familiar but also a friend. Over the lifetimes he spent with his master, he was taught some powerful magics, such as opening planar gates as well as gates that allowed him to leap between locations of the Prime Material plane.
He also was a capable shape-changer, often using that ability to talk to other locals but only in the guise of a child, a dog, or a sheep.
Among the more mundane skills, Boonmoppet had a knack for finding gemstone and various valuable knickknacks.
With his master gone, his humble tower became Boonmoppets tower along with all of its arcane contents. He owned all of his masters stock, including several rare and unique items, such as Elbixs Stonestick‎‎ and Alatians Spell Shroud.
Boonmoppet, originally called simply "moppet," was a familiar of an unnamed conjurer with deep connections to the plane of Baator, whose tower was located in the Daggerfords Farmlands. He served his master for several lifetimes as, with time, the wizard successfully transformed himself into a lich. Eventually, the word of an undead spellcaster reached the city of Waterdeep and a pack of self-important paladins and clerics swarmed the masters tower, slaying the lich and shattering his phylactery, leaving the imp alone and lonely. Ironically enough, Boonmoppets masters undeath was achieved to further his alchemical business, which benefited the local community. Since then, Boonmoppet had a strong dislike of adventurers and do-gooders who often stuck their noses in places where they did not belong. The loss of his master weighted heavily on the imp.
In 1372 DR, Boonmoppet set a trap for a group of adventurers traveling alongside the Hero of Daggerford. He shapeshifted into a distraught little girl whose dog fell into the foreboding hole in the Eastern Farmlands. As they descended into the pit, the imp revealed his true form mocking them. Boonmoppet opened a gate to Baator, unleashing his pet kocrachons - female one, Fluffy, and male - Moxy, and their entire brood. His heroes defeated the devils and closed the gate. However, Boonmoppet forgot to close the gate the fled through, and the Hero of Daggerford followed him.
The adventurers confronted Boonmoppet and pitied his loneliness. Thankful for a conversation and adventurers not wanting to slay the imp, Boonmoppet offered to sell them some of the magic items that belonged to his long-dead master.