Borador "Goldhand" (a moniker picked up for his legendary avarice) was a dwarf treasure-hunter and rogue active in the mid–14 century DR.
Borador was a member of the Goblinbreaker Clan. According to his clan-brother, Durbem, their clan owed a large debt to some elves, though it is not known who exactly, or why the clan is indebted to them. Aiding his clan in paying the elves back was one of Boradors primary motivations for his adventuring work.
Borador traveled to Baldurs Gate circa 1374 DR in search of adventure in order to gain wealth. He often made sure he would be well-paid before embarking on a quest. Nonetheless, he donated large sums of gold to paying his clans debt to the elves.
Borador was tasked with clearing out a dwarven hall that had been infested by a basilisk, so that the Goblinbreaker clan might open up mining operations there and finally pay off their debt. This mission Borador undertook seemingly out of loyalty to the clan, but claiming the considerable treasure that such a quest entailed might also have been a motivation.
In matters concerning his clan, Borador displayed altruistic qualities that were not seen in his dealings with others. When he discovered that Mordoc SeLanmere had taken control of Baldurs Gate, Boradors first reaction was to declare his intention to loot the city. This may have been no more than a joke and he soon decided to save it instead. He did say however that he would charge the Grand Dukes for his trouble, apparently seriously.
Borador took a fairly casual approach to most of his work, and often displayed irreverent behavior. If an ally was killed, he appeared to take it as a personal slight rather than show any sign of grief. Nevertheless, he made it clear, when asked, that under no circumstances would he fight on Mordocs side, suggesting a degree of goodly inclination may be melded with his material interest and clan loyalties.
Borador had skill in disarming traps. He also possessed numerous smokepowder explosive weapons, including the ability to lay remotely detonated satchels. As a largely freelance treasure-hunter, Borador did not specialize in many conventional dwarven battle tactics like heavy armor and weapons, but after fulfilling his duties to his clan he gained the ability to use a "dwarven warsong". He also had the option of specializing in the lore of creating magical items.