Brightlightning Dragonsbane was the Swordmaster of the Hordes of the Tangled Trees from Yuirwood and Lady Lonereed Silverleafs escort-of-the-year during the Festival of Blades of 1217 DR.
Brightlightning was a tall, muscular, and very pompous elf. He wore ceremonial chainmail of elven make and had a pudding-bowl haircut. He valued over-the-top pretentious ceremonies of noble court. The man was narcissistic, lacked self-awareness, and did not recognize sarcasm aimed at him or his glorious name.
Brightlightning Dragonsbane accompanied Lady Lonereed Silverleaf of Yuirwood to the Festival of Blades of . The resplendent festival took place in the city-state of Sumbria of the Blade Kingdoms after that years "white war," a bloodless military completion of strategies and wits. A grand ball in the Palace of Manniccis was hosted by the Prince-elect Cappa Mannicci and his perfumed layered silk mountain of a wife - Ulia Mannicci. When the herald announced the elven couple, Brightlightning Dragonsbane pompously introduced himself to princess Milianna Mannicci da Sumbria, who remained unimpressed by the muscular man and his slender fey lady. Bursting with sarcasm, Milianna inquired whether the knight himself picked up the name "Brightlightning Dragonsbane." It was, by his own proud admission. Brightlightning adopted the grandiose name to impress onlookers and encourage them to ask of the Swordmasters heroic deeds.
During the reception, Lady Silverleaf noticed a pink pearl necklace on princess Miliannas neck. The unique piece of jewelry was stolen from the elven diplomat by a kleptomaniac firebird. The thieving creature befriended the princess and left the item for her as a gift. Lady Silverleaf tasked her escort-of-the-year to follow the princess thief to her quarters to confirm her identity and later exposed the crime to Ulia Mannicci. The Lady Ulia reacted with a steeled determination of a super-heated iron golem and confronted her step-daughter, punishing her for the deed by sending her to the dreaded Velvet Gauntlet Finishing School for Wayward Young Ladies.
Later the same evening, Brightlightning Dragonsbane and Lonereed Silverleaf were present for the unveiling of The Sea Goddess Rising from the Waves - a painting gift from the city-state of Lomatra. Unfortunately for the hostess reputation and the guests eyes, a series of unfortunate events led to a wrong painting being hung in the Palace of Manniccis gallery. When the painting was unveiled, diplomatic envoys from all the surrounding nations witnessed a painting depicting an unflattering rendition of Lady Ulia Mannicci in an immodest swimsuit. The painting was named The Sea Beast Rising from the Waves. Fainting and scandal ensued.