Byrt was one of the intelligent speaking wombats, similar to an awakened animal, who alongside Lugg, was a friend and companion of Artus Cimber in the mid–14 century DR.
Byrt was a wombat, a small animal that resembled a pygmy bear or a "pig-bear," according to the Batiri. Byrt walked on all four stout legs and had a chubby body covered in fur. Both Byrt and Lugg were about half the size of an adult human male. Byrts face had round ears, a flat nose, and bristling whiskers.
Out of the two, Byrt was the smaller one. His fur was gray.
Byrt was the complete opposite of his best friend, Lugg. He was extroverted, talkative, eloquent, and optimistic to a fault.
Shortly before the Batiri siege of Mezro, Byrt wore a magical triangle earring that protected him from the effects of the wall of confusion surrounding the hidden city.
Both Byrt and Lugg hailed from a tiny island off the coast of Orlil, Lantan. Their home was a small and peaceful community of fifty wombats and an occasional odd platypus.
At some point earlier in his life, Byrt pursued his passion for the dramatic. The charismatic wombat attended and graduated from Orlils College of Bards, in the Order of Fabulists. Upon finishing his bardic education, Byrt received the license to teach and lecture, sharing his rich knowledge of culture and lore. Like other fabulists, the wombat held vast book knowledge and was passionate about grammar.
After the bardic college, Byrt made a living as a "jack-of-all-trades" while his buddy Lugg served as a decent second-story man. In some ways, the wombats had high hopes to see a big city and maybe have a career in show business. However, their hopes were shattered on the Rampages next stop somewhere in Refugee Bay of Chult. There, the pirates decided to strand the wombats, unable and unwilling to listen to Byrts unending theatrical soliloquy any longer.
Byrt and Lugg spent the next two years in the jungles of Chult, trying to avoid the hungry Batiri goblins until they ran across Artus Cimber in 1362 DR. The wombats accidentally burrowed into the lair of the Batiri "god" Grumog at the same time as the tribe tossed Artus, the explorer from Suzail, to be sacrificed to the monstrosity. Sticking close to each other, the wombats and the adventurer, with Tymoras grace, killed the giant centipede-lizard tentacled creature. Seeing no other way out, Byrt and Lugg dug them out of the "gods" lair and into a sprawling cave system underneath Chult. Eventually, the cavern led the trio to a shimmering yellow magical field. Both wombats became mentally lost and confused while Artus pushed through the magic, dragging the animals past the ensorcelled wall of light. Without knowing it, theyd breached the walls of Mezro, the hidden Tabaxi city, by passing under its magical walls.
Welcomed to Mezro by Dhalmass Rayburton, one of the citys barae, Artus and the wombats found a brief shelter from the dangers of the Chultan jungles. The safety was short-lived as a war with the Batiri was swelling outside the citys walls, goaded by Kaverin Ebonhand and his desire for the secrets of immortality hidden within the Temple of Ubtao. Byrt and Lugg accompanied Dhalmass Rayburton to Ras Tfimas hut outside the city walls. They never reached the destination and were ambushed by goblins. Byrt and Sir Rayburton were captured while Lugg fled to the city, pierced by a goblin arrow. While Artus and others were preparing for war, Byrt was kept by the Batiri as a future meal, feeding him well with onions, radishes, and koko-yams. During the imprisonment, Byrt revealed the origins of barae immortality to stop the heinous torture of Dhalmass Rayburton.
Once the assault on Mezro commenced, Byrts cage was snatched by an opportunistic Batiri and stashed away with other food supplies to consume later. After the goblin armys defeat, Queen Mbobo nearly escaped the battlefield and was getting ready to retreat with several of her warriors, Byrts cage, and other food supplies. However, Lugg came to the rescue. The wombat friends stood alone against trained goblin warriors until Artus Cimber arrived as he promised to rescue Byrt.
In the weeks that followed, Byrt and Lugg were nearly inseparable from Artus Cimber during the reconstruction of the city. Eventually, Artus was convinced that the wombats skills were more helpful in taking care of the citys kids, a task that Byrt found absolutely delightful. Subsequently, the wombats accompanied Artus and his new wife Alisanda Rayburton to Cormyr, where the wombats got to experience the hustle of a big city and safety from goblins for the first time in years.
By the late 15 century DR, both Byrt and Lugg had died of old age. Artus Cimber had their names tattooed on his fingers above the knuckles as a tribute to his dear friends.