Caiphon, also known as the Purple Star and the Dream Whisperer, was a star-like Elder Evil from the Far Realm who had taken a place among the stars of Realmspace. Unlike normal stars, Caiphon didnt have a fixed place in the sky but instead danced and wavered across Realmspace.
From afar, Caiphon was seen as a purple star. However, those who had studied this star for a long period, experienced lucid dreams in which they were transported to the star proper. According to those few, Caiphon was a world of purple fire that pulsed as if was alive, and was covered by a purple, amoebic ocean.
Unlike the other Far Realm–infested stars of Realmspace, Caiphon was interested in the affairs of the mortal world. Some speculated that this behavior was because Caiphon had a role to play in the final destiny of the world.
Caiphon, like the other Far Realm–infested stars of Realmspace, was somehow related to the Eldest.
Many believed Caiphon was a guide star, but Caiphon usually betrayed those who relied excessively upon it.
Caiphon was usually sought out by some warlocks to make a pact with it. Neogi were specially apt to seek out pacts with it and the other Far Realm–infested stars. To those few Caiphon bestowed the gift of forbidden knowledge, giving them the ability to use the fevered certainty of Caiphon spell, as well as access to ancient knowledge best left forgotten. Those who were granted the gifts of Caiphon had their eyes turned into opalescent purple orbs, and always heard the whispers of Caiphon in their heads.
Caiphon also granted those few warlocks who sought it the ability to create stairs of light that moved on their own, allowing the warlock that conjured them to move across long distances in just a moments effort. However, the risk for the user was losing his or her sanity, as the stairs allowed their user to glimpse the landscape that existed beyond reality.
In the , after having lost his pact with the archfey Neifion, the warlock Japheth Donard sought out the Far Realm–infested stars to recover his magical powers. Caiphon was among those he saw, but he went with another.