Mage
Caladaster Daermree was a senior inhabitant of Ripplestones during the 8 century DR who had retired from wizardry.
Caladaster believed that abandoning magic was a good way to preserve ones sanity.
The old man had mutton-chop whiskers that were already white-and-gray. Under his robe, he wore breeches and braces.
He was a close friend of Baerdagh. However, he had told his last name to no one.
Caladaster was a mage.
Caladaster seemed to manifest a gem-studded staff at times, though interestingly he did not bring any such device to dangerous situations.
When Caladaster was but a lad, Sharindala was a living sorceress. He later became a mage, and at some point became aware of the location of Karsus Keep, if not its true nature.
In the , the mage Elminster Aumar came wandering through Ripplestones, searching for the tomb of Sharindala. Caladaster pointed him to Scorchstone Hall, Sharindalas manor in life, now burnt, and warned him about the wards that prevented anyone from approaching. Over a princely, generous meal, Elminster assured the men he aimed to take nothing from the grave. He visited Caladaster the next morning before setting off for the Dead Place, despite their warnings about the Slayer.
Caladaster was at the front of the tavern when Ilbryn Starym, an avenging elf, came tracking down Elminster. Though they didnt say anything, another regular at the inn, Jalobal, told Ilbryn all about him. Suspiciously for Caladaster, Ilbryn talked about catching Elminster, not catching up to him. Afterwards, Caladaster went home his friend Baerdagh saw a gem-studded staff sprout in his hands along the way.
Later, when the scholars Tabarast and Beldrune came to Ripplestones in the company of a Harper answering to no name, and also following Elminster, Caladaster told them about him, but also offered to accompany them to where he was certain Elminster had gone. While accompanying them, he wondered why the Harper had called him Caladaster Daermree, when he hadnt told anyone his last name. and was a witness when Azuth then blocked off the spells of the Sharran dreadspells, and then, the explosion resulting from the destruction of Saeraede Lyonora. He saw this protection as a great honor.
Later, as the three mages told their story at the Fair Maid, the undead Sharindala came to the tavern, wearing nothing but her hair, and still missing all flesh below the hip. She asked for one of the gowns that Tabarast and Beldrune recovered from Karsus Keep, but was refused Caladaster gave her the robe he was wearing instead. She asked him to walk with him, revealing she still remembered him.