Camber Fosrick was a fictional detective who appeared in a series of books and short stories written by Lodevin Parkar, a scribe of Cormyr, and published in Faerûn in the mid–14 century DR.
In the stories, Camber Fosrick was a "great consulting cogitator" who solved various crimes and mysteries such as smuggling, robberies, and murders, typically with elaborate and exciting plots. His approach focused on logic, deductive reasoning, and putting together apparently unrelated clues to come to a rational conclusion. and playing tricks. For example, to prove a man was a murderer, Fosrick suddenly threw a ball at him, which he caught in his allegedly unusable left hand (Jasper found this did not work nearly so well in practice). The stories often culminated in Fosrick assembling all the suspects in one place, laying out the facts, and revealing the culprit.
Fosrick was portrayed as courageous and gallant, the kind of man whod laugh at ghosts.
Camber Fosrick stories were published in installments in certain cheap journals and gathered into collections. Fans who came to the series later purchased second-hand issues to collect unread stories, but might find themselves with part 3 of 4 not knowing how it began, let alone how it ended.
One Camber Fosrick publication was The Adventures of Camber Fosrick, an anthology of six short stories, including "The Adventure of the Battledale Billhook".
Camber Fosrick was created by Lodevin Parkar, a scribe of Cormyr. The Camber Fosrick stories were in publication through 1365 DR.
New stories were still being published around 1367 DR and were well known around Cormyr at the time.
The Camber Fosrick stories were well known in Cormyr, even in the farming town of Ghars, in the mid-1360s DR, with many people familiar enough with them to reference them in conversation or use "Camber Fosrick" as a byword for a skilled detective, such as Captain Flim and Lukas Spoondrift.
The servant Jasper loved the thrilling tales, complex plots, and the character of Camber Fosrick himself. He even compared Fosricks approach to the concepts discussed in Thought and Its Processes. Jasper occasionally fancied himself as being like Camber Fosrick when monitoring goings-on in the Bold Bard tavern, tracking footprints, or needing to bolster his courage. The Camber Fosrick stories would in fact be his only training and basis for investigating the murders of Dovo and Grodoveth on behalf of his master Benelaius in Eleint of 1367 DR.
The young War Wizard Lindavar was also well-read in the Fosrick tales and quoted them to others.
However, Benelaius, a retired War Wizard, scholar, and part-time consulting cogitator himself, derided the Camber Fosrick stories as "drivel" and "tripe" that would rot the readers brains if they werent already rotted enough to want to read them in the first place. The Ghars library, curated by Phelos Marmwitz, did not stock any of the Camber Fosrick books, but only "serious literature".
Nevertheless, a copy of The Adventures of Camber Fosrick was kept in no less than the great temple-library of Candlekeep by 1372 DR.