CeNedra was a powerful and villainous sorceress who menaced the dwarves of Citadel Felbarr sometime before 1054 DR.The book references the Maatar Oasis and the Bedine tribe that lived there. In Issue 1, the oasis and the Bedine are wiped out, placing the events of the comic series some time before 1360 DR, when the Zhentarim artificially re-created the oasis and established a hold there. The flashback takes place sometime before 1054 DR, before the dwarves abandoned Citadel Felbarr.
CeNedra had slender athletic physique. She had waist-long red hair and facial tattoos in the shape of three tears under her left eye. The sorceress wore a voluminous black-and-green hooded cloak and long thigh-high boots. She preferred to wear light and revealing green robes, decorative chest guard, and copious rings and bracelets on both hands. Her left leg was decorated with a tattoo of a spider.
CeNedra had a cocky and vicious personality.
thumb|CeNedra in her sand golem shape.|340x340px
The sorceress was a talented arcane spellcaster. Her magic was dangerous and destructive. Among the spells she possessed were fly, invisibility, and many others. She could polymorph herself into a powerful and deadly sand golem.
She also was skilled in acrobatics.
CeNedras medallion was a powerful enchanted amulet that belonged to the sorceress. The item possessed magics that enhanced the owners spellcasting abilities, and allowed non-wizards to tap into its powers when their lives were in danger.
She was known to carry vials of acid.
Sometime before 1054 DR, CeNedra rained death and destruction on the small dwarven village of Stonejewel, located at the entrance to the Stronghold of Uziul in Citadel Felbarr. The woman cast fireballs and lightning bolts on the dwarves. But one of the warriors stood against the sorceress—Arokin Steelarm. He lunged at her and managed to snatch CeNedras medallion off her neck before being defeated and left for dead. Unbeknownst to her, Arokin survived and set out to stop the evil creature.
Some time later, before 1360 DR, CeNedra sought to gain the power hidden deep within the mysteriously manifested great pyramid of Anauroch. In order to gain access to the ancient structure, she took shape of a sand golem and slaughtered the Bedine tribe that resided in the Oasis of Maatar. She slew the leaders son - Rahmed, the leaders wife, and tortured the old man, leaving him crucified, slowly dying in the Anaurochs sun.
Even though not much was known of the outcome of CeNedras quest, she gained entrance to the guarded chambers within the great pyramid while being pursued by adventurers Arokin Steelarm, Aileen, Gwidre, and Faradn - the son of the Bedine tribe leader the sorceress tortured to death.