Celadaine was once the most celebrated knight of the Iliyanbruen elves, until his fall from grace left him as the malevolent champion of the fomorian king Malabog.
As the knight-protector of the elves, Celadaine lived a life of eternal vigilance, always on the lookout for any threats that presented themselves to the Iliyanbruen elves. He lived something of an isolated life, taking the role of master of a lone watchtower at the border of the elven lands, alongside a retinue of retainers called the Gatekeepers.
During his life with the elves, Celadaine was a warrior of unequaled skill who had a great mind for military strategy. He fought with a sword and shield, weapons befitting a fey knight.
After his downfall, Celadaine gained the power to transform into a monstrous and disfigured version of himself, which vaguely resembled one of the fomorians of the Feydark.
250px|Celdaine and a troll ally standing atop the walls at Malabogs Castle
Celadaine was aided in his duties by the Gatekeepers, three elven guardians that protected the arcane portals.
Celadaine took great effort to turn away the Gloaming Court when they threatened his home and fellow elves. He was nearly entirely responsible for the removal of their presence from within the land claimed by the elves.
In an act of revenge, the fomorian witches used corrupt magic to assail Celadaines mind, convincing him that his fellow elves abandoned him to fight off their enemies alone. This form of psychic sabotage left Celadaine feeling unappreciated and wholly alone, even amongst his kin. Over time his entire outlook on the elven way of life became warped he saw no more beauty in the natural world and began to believe what hed known to be lies as genuine truths.
On one particularly horrible night, Celadaine murdered the Gatekeepers and accepted the dark fey replacements that were sent forth by the Gloaming Court. The ghosts of the elven sentinels languished in the tower, tormented by the dark creatures that took their place. Celadaine then swore fealty to King Malabog, and served as his black knight during the fomorians rise to power during the late 15 century DR.