The Champion of the Burning Dawn was a member of the Order of the Burning Dawn in the late 15 century DR.
Sometime around 1487 DR, the adventurer known as the Champion of the Burning Dawn was a new recruit of the Order of the Burning Dawn, who, along with fellow guildmates Jarhild Stoneforge and Belamy Lightfingers, was tasked with escorting a small merchant caravan led by Tollin along the High Road between Neverwinter and Luskan, when the Order of the Burning Dawn was attacked.
Having set up camp along the High Road and gone to sleep, they were plagued with an unusual nightmare of fire, battle, and brutality when they dreamed of accompanying fellow guildmates Gill, Neddy, Belamy Lightfingers, and Arnai in attempting to escape the Orders burning guildhall before encountering a vicious demon. Startling awake, the Champion again found themselves in camp on the High Road, but soon learned that Jarhild and Belamy had shared the same dream.
Soon after the caravan started to pack up, they were ambushed by well-trained attackers. However, the group was aided by the adventurers Illydia Maethellyn and Larethar Gulgrin, and the ambushers defeated. From the newcomers, they learned that another caravan, similarly guarded by members of the Order of the Burning Dawn, among which were Belamys sister Bryn Lightfingers, had also been attacked, and that the Burning Dawn guildhall in Luskan had been raided.
Joining Illydia and Larethar, they tracked down the ambushers hideout within a network of caves controlled by the goblin Trax Howltongue and her tribe, wherein they discovered the dismembered corpse of Calick, another Burning Dawn recruit. Fighting their way through the mercenaries lair, they came upon Richard Brewbanks, a member of their caravan who was taken captive by the goblins. He revealed that he had plans to sell an elven antique he had stolen from his brother, Wilfred Brewbanks.
Further within, they finally came upon another two members of the Burning Dawn from the missing caravan, Gill and Neddy, just as they are executed by Sir Ruthran Banagar, on the order of High Commander Javen Tarmikos of the Order of the Gilded Eye. At this sight, Belamy rushes away to avenge his fallen guildmates. Charging after him, the Champion and his party came upon Tombul, a dying member of the Gilded Eye attacked by Belamy, who revealed that he and his comrades had orders to wipe out the Order of the Burning Dawn. They also came across the necromancer Hommet Shaw, a traveler of Gill, Neddy and Bryns caravan, who offers to join the party, as well as the merchant Martumal, whom they learned betrayed their caravans location to the Snarling Fang mercenary company for a large amount of gold.
At last, they caught up to Belamy, but too late, as he is brutally executed by Sir Banagar. The Champion and their party defeated Sir Banagar and learned that his order, the Knights of the Gilded Eye, was targeting the Order of the Burning Dawn on grounds of believing them to be demons of the Abyss. Seeing the Burning Dawn nearly wiped out by the zealots of Helm, the Champion and Jarhild, along with Illydia, Larethar, and Hommet, set out to avenge their fallen guildmates.
That night, camping at the gates of Luskan, the Champion and Jarhild had another nightmare, of guilt and ghoulish creatures speaking of the Mad One, and encounter Tasyllys, an imposing drow who heralded the birth of a new god. The laughter of a shadow of madness hung over the Champion as they woke, and, worried that the dreams might be prophetic, Illydia suggested that they contact her and Larethars informant, the diviner Soronil Noonshadow, in Luskan.
Speaking to Illydia, they learned that she was on a quest searching for an elven relic of Sehanine Moonbow called the Moontear.
As they were held up at the gates of Luskan, they learned that the High Captains of Luskan had ordered a search for members of the Burning Dawn. While passing through the sewers, in order to sidestep the search at the gate and enter Luskan unnoticed, the party encountered first the Dead Rats gang, and soon after, a mysterious stranger warning them that they were being watched by a powerful organization in Luskan.
Entering Luskans market district, the Champion sought out the guildhall of the Burning Dawn, and found the building strewn with corpses of fellow guild members massacred by the Gilded Eye. Soon after, the party sought out Soronil Moonshadow at the Cutlass tavern. Learning that he had fled to a safehouse nearby when the Gilded Eye had showed up at the tavern, they convinced a wounded Ship Baram guard, who had been paid to aid the Eye, to reveal the safehouse location. When the Champion and his party arrived at the safehouse, they found Soronil surrounded by Ship Baram sellswords and a Gilded Eye agent, and came to his aid.
Later, in the Luskan slum, the party was attacked, first by Arariel Solarel, and later by Shadow Cultists.
They then set out to uncover Maferils laboratory in the Luskan cemetary. Fighting through undead, they went down into the catacombs through the mausoleum, where they came upon a lair of vampires.
The party eventually comes to Gracklstugh whilst seeking the Moontear. There they found a mind flayer had taken advantage of Deepking Horgar Steelshadow Vs madness and dominated the city, and had even invaded the mind of the Wyrmsmith of Gracklstugh, Themberchaud. The hero defeated the illithid and freed both king and dragon, Themberchaud rewarded them with the great gift of deciding not to eat them.
They later traveled to the Temple of Ghaunadaur to recover the Sigil of Ghaunadaur for the drow Morlesh, where, after fighting though the many oozes of the dungeon as well as encountering a number of cultists of Ghaunadaur, they confronted Morlesh in the temples innermost chambers, as he explained his wish to rebuild the cult with himself as leader and intending to use mind control to offer his deity willing human sacrifices.