| ref1e          = 
Chuqali Shilai was a human barbarian and qaghan of the Fankiang tribe and the city of Li-Raz, the greatest city of the Plain of Horses region, circa .
An autocratic ruler in every way, Shilai kept the city of Li-Raz stable and tightly controlled by his army. He ended feuds and fighting between Li-Razs various factions by passing laws that divided the people into two different classes the Western Court was composed of people who descended from the original settlers, while the Eastern Court was composed of people who descended from those hsing (clans) that had been subjugated or annexed by the Fankiang tribe of Li-Raz. The Western Court found unity through their shared contempt for the Eastern Court, while the Eastern Court had no power anyway and any revolts they attempted were swiftly crushed by the army. In this brutal way, the city was kept peaceful, orderly and stable.
His strict administrative system was adopted by many other large tribes and cities of the region. However, Shilai had little love for administration himself and delegated most responsibilities to subordinates, and even ordered executions for administrators who pestered him with details and tasks. All in all, his authority over the Fankiang and Li-Raz was unquestioned and unchallenged.
He was an expert archer and even had private range on which he trained on a regular basis. He even had one whole keshig, an elite military unit, assigned to simply retrieving his precious silver arrows following a battle.
Chuqali Shilai cut an intimidating, even frightening, figure, standing almost  in height and displaying powerful muscles. His hair was black, long and flowing.
His character was just as fierce. He had an unwavering belief that his Fankiang tribe were fated to one day reign over the entire Plain of Horses region. He would rather associate with soldiers than scholars and while he tried to be fair-minded, he was annoyed by the minutia of administration.
Among his treasures, the most valued were his silver bow and silver arrows.
His palace compound and headquarters was the Tent of the Bows and Quivers in Li-Raz. Considered the grandest building in all the Plain of Horses, it held his throne room with silver-plated bows, arrows, quivers, saddles, and shields. It also had a stable for his herd of sacred white camels and a large white cart that transported Shilais mobile personal yurt, which was fashioned from camel hides sewn with silver thread.
In , the Tsu-tsu qaghan Shajji Hoijarek hatched a scheme to lure the Fankiang into a trap. He ordered forty camels be stained white and left to graze a days ride west of Li-Raz, where they would inevitably be spotted by Fankiang scouts or herdsmen. Tsu-tsu horsemen then lay in wait to ambush any Fankiang who came to round up these apparently sacred beasts. Fankiang herdsmen sighted these possibly valuable camels and reported them to qaghan Shilai, who dispatched soldiers and adventurers to retrieve them. This ambush may have led to battle or all-out war between the two tribes.