Clipper was a harengon who hailed from the Feywild. He was cursed to travel far and wide, and never allowed to settle down to a place he could call home.
He resembled a large humanoid rabbit, an appearance he often had to refute to people unfamiliar with the harengon folk.
thumb|right|300px|Despite his curse, Clipper had an indomitable spirit.
Clipper had an "act first, ask questions later" attitude and would readily throw himself into harms way. He proved rather capable however, and got himself out of several precarious situations.
He was loyal to those that helped him, and would not leave them behind to fend for themselves.
According to Clipper, he had a "nose for enchantment", and could sense things like curses and presumably magical dweomers.
As an adventurer, he wielded a pair of handaxes.
Due to his curse, Clipper spent nearly all of his time traveling from one realm to another, unable to settle down at a single locale.
thumb|right|350px|Clipper and Billi falling into the Fey realm of Thither.
For a time, Clipper followed the Witchlight Carnival to the far-off world of Toril, where it stopped at the small town of Daggerford. There the intrepid harengon saw his opportunity to steal "magic words" from  the carriage of the carnivals proprietor, Mister Witch. He soon met a woman named Billi, who he sensed had also been afflicted with a "fey-born" curse. Clipper took Billi to the hall of mirrors, spoke the magic words, and transported himself and Billi to Thither, a realm in the demiplane of Prismeer.
Clipper and Billi got into trouble almost immediately after entering into Thither. The pair stole an owlbear-led chariot from an elf man, and rammed it into Honeyhollow Fortress, an outpost for a community of sprites. They were then taken captive by the tiny, militaristic fey and forced to make a bargain in exchange for their freedom, Clipper and Billi would break into the lair of the hag Granny Skabatha Nightshade, and steal valuable spell components for the sprites. This was a fortunate turn of events for Clippers companion. It had just become apparent to Billi that Granny Nightshade was the monster responsible for abducting her brother Desmond some eight years prior.
The two broke into Granny Nightshades lair and, with the help of the hags apprentice Mishka, overcame her fey minions. During the fracas, Clipper got into a battle with green dragon wyrmling, before meeting the hag herself. Granny Nightshade offered to free Clipper from his curse, provided he join her forces. Clipper refused and stayed true to his new friend. Fortunately for the due, Billi drew up the answer to Granny Nightshades riddle, and freed her brother from the hags clutches. Clipper, Billi, and Desmond were instantaneously banished from the Feywild and sent back to the world of Toril.
Not content to merely live their lives as before their encounter with Granny Nightshade, Clipper and Billi decided they would return to Prismeer, and free Mishka and other children like Desmond who had been taken captive by the malevolent hag.