blue dragon
Clytemorrenestrix, or Nestrix to her human companions, was a mature blue dragon who was changed by the Spellplague into a human woman.
During her early years, Clytemorrenestrix lived in the Raurin desert, where she met her mate Tantlevgithus. At some point, they moved to the Calim Desert, where she made a name for herself and acquired a sizable hoard by terrorizing caravans.
The day the Spellplague struck on Tarsakh 29, the , a thief named Lyra sneaked into Clytemorrenestrixs lair and attempted to steal a jeweled choker. Clytemorrenestrix chased the thief into the desert and both were overcome by the blue flame of the spell storm. Lyras body was transformed into that of a bronze dragon, but the stolen choker remained the same size and choked her to death. Clytemorrenestrix was turned into a human woman but many of Lyras memories and possibly some of her consciousness were transferred to her.
Clytemorrenestrixs lair and her eggs were destroyed by the Spellplague and her mate was killed. Since she had nothing tying her to the Calim Desert any longer, "Nestrix" wandered throughout Faerûn for many years. In the , she killed a wizard in Cormyr, possibly in self-defense. Regardless, the War Wizards and the wizards family put a bounty on her head and she escaped to Waterdeep.
She had heard rumors that the powerful raptoran sorceress Aundra Blacklock knew a ritual to reverse the effects of spellscars. She tried in vain to contact Aundra at the God Catcher, a tenement Aundra owned, but was unsuccessful. A young apprentice wizard named Tennora Hedare who lived at the God Catcher took pity on Nestrix and arranged a meeting with Aundra. Nestrix explained her situation and Aundra agreed to turn Nestrix back into a dragon if she would steal back a magical mask from a shop in the Trades Ward.
Tennora and Nestrix broke into the shop and stole the mask. However, the shop belonged to a young green dragon named Andareunarthex, or "Dareun", and he was able to track Tennora back to her apartment. Even though he was weakened by Waterdeeps dragonward, he was able to overpower Tennora. Nestrix arrived during the middle of their battle and she was taken captive by Dareun and his minions, who teleported her to a secret chamber in the sewers.
Tennora bargained for Nestrixs release in exchange for stealing the Song Dragons Choker for Dareun. The choker was a powerful magical item created for a song dragon who came to Waterdeeps aid after the Spellplague. It allowed dragons to escape the effects of the dragonward. Tennora sneaked into her former masters wizard academy, grabbed the choker, and returned it to Dareuns shop. At the shop, Dareuns head servant (lovac), Ferremo Magli, took the choker and bound Tennora and threw her in the harbor. Tennora escaped and returned to her apartment where she and Veron Angalen, a bounty hunter who was tracking Nestrix, found an entrance to the sewers and eventually found Dereuns hideout.
While all this was going on, Dareun kidnapped the young son of one of Waterdeeps Masked Lords, Nazra Mrays, in a plot to force Nazra to hand over the Dragonstaff of Ahghairon she held. Tennora freed Nestrix and killed several of Dareuns minions including Ferremo. However, Dareun escaped and teleported back to his shop with Nazras son. Tennora, Veron, and Nestrix found a teleportation item and teleported to the shop where they rescued Nazras son.
They journeyed to Nazras mansion and confronted Dareun, who intended to take the dragonstaff by force. In the battle that followed, Nestrix was gravely wounded but Dareun was driven off, presumably out of Waterdeep. Aundra Blacklock was apparently lying when she claimed to have the ability to transform Nestrix back to dragon form and Nestrix remained a human. However, Nazra touched Nestrix with the dragonstaff and named her a friend of Waterdeep although it was doubtful the staff had any real effect on Nestrix because the dragonward hadnt bother Nestrix in her human form.
In her human form, Nestrix appeared as a very tall woman with dark hair. Most people who saw her assumed she was Tethyrian. She didnt have a spellscar on her body rather her entire body was a spellscar.