High Luck Colle Shoondeep was the high priest of Tymora at Ladysluck Tower in Yhaunn in the late 14  century DR.
Colle was a chubby and florid man. 
Despite being a priest of Lady Luck, he was a remarkably boring and methodical man, and didnt appreciate sudden turns of fate. He broke into seething tirades when frustrated or upset.
He took a strong and immediate dislike to Moonmistress-Designate Feena Archwood for her rustic nature and inexperience, but was especially biased against her for being a werewolf.
Colle was High Luck of Ladysluck Tower by 1373 DR, representing and overseeing the temple. In Eleasis of that year, he attended a council with Feena Archwood, Endress Halatar, and the other high priests of the city. During the meeting he complained at length about the difficulties he had with Lady Monstaed (actually Variance Amatick in disguise), who had just transferred property leases from Ladysluck Tower to Moonshadow Hall. A potential tirade from Colle was defused by deft rhetoric from Mifano, saving Feena additional trouble.
After reports of a werewolf slaying a man in the Stiltways, Colle immediately suspected Feena and summoned Guard Captain Manas to investigate her at Moonshadow Hall. Their investigation was stymied by the seasoned fourteen-year-old sentry Jhezzail, who refused to allow the High Luck in despite his raging tirades. They met Feena, but their questioning was interrupted by Julith Harkspur, who gave a false alibi and rallied Feena into asserting her authority, daring the High Luck and Guard Captain to accuse her openly. Colle was left sputtering and red-faced as Manas closed the investigation of Feena.
Colle later attended a high-society party hosted by Ammanas Aumleagarr, meeting many prestigious personages. He briefly spotted Feena in her fine formal wear, greeting her pleasantly before performing a comical double take and scowling fiercely once he recognized her.
Three nights later, Colle attended another meeting at Moonshadow Hall alongside the other prominent representatives of the city where Feena presented her plan of expanding the New Moon Beneficence. Though he opposed her plans, she won over the other high priests and representatives.