Dabnay Trarach was a novice priestess of Lolth of House Trarach in Menzoberranzan in the early 11 century DR.
Dabnay had short white hair, red lips, and high cheekbones.
Dabnay hailed from House Trarach, a small house.
In 1018 DR, Dabnay was studying at Arach-Tinilith.
After a completely failed attack on House Simfray, Dabnay was with her mother, the Matron Mother Hauzz Trarach, who complained to Horroodissomoth Xorlarrin about the failure.
Later, she covertly helped Zaknafein to enter House Trarachs complex to kill her mother. However, after the death of Hauzz, Zaknafein informed her that, contrary to the pact she had with Jarlaxle, House Trarach was no more and her only chance of survival was to join Bregan Daerthe.
Thus, by 1118 DR she had joined Jarlaxle and that year Dabnay helped Zak to ambush Arathis Hune. In truth, she was playing a deadly game with Matron Soulez Armgo of House Barrison DelArmgo to increase her power Matron Soulez offered Dabnay a place in her House in exchange for the death of Zaknafein.
In 1119 DR, she conspired with Arathis and Matron Soulez to kill Zak the assassin and the weapon master were both called to an isolated spot and there were attacked by a House Barrison DelArmgo war party led by Uthegentel DelArmgo. They partnered and managed to kill most of the Armgo warriors, but not Uthegentel, when suddenly Arathis and Dabnay attacked Zaknafein. Zaknafein however had cleverly expected the betrayal and finally managed to kill the assassin but spare Dabnay. Despite all this, Mother Soulez was satisfied with the result and rewarded Dabany by admitting her into House Armgo.
In 1296 DR, she was again in Bregan Daerthe, as one of the few woman in the group and the only priestess. That year she discussed with Jarlaxle about the proposed job from Masoj Hunett.
In 1488 DR, Dabnay was still one of the few women in Bregan Daerthe and was based in Luskan. She plotted with Beniago, Braelin Janquay, and Wulfgar on how regain control of Luskan after the Margaster takeover for this they listened to the news reported by Bonnie Charlee.
In 1490 DR, Dabnay traveled with Jarlaxle and aided him, along with Artemis and Zaknafein, in an attack on the ship of Captain Arrongo, the Pelican.
By 1118 DR, Dabnay had had a liaison with Zaknafein. In 1318 DR, they resumed their affair. She was very close to her brother Duvon.