Open Lord of Waterdeep
Dagult Neverember was the wealthy Lord Protector of Neverwinter and formerly the Open Lord of Waterdeep as of the late 15 century DR. He was a member of the Lords Alliance and one of the most powerful and well-respected men on the entire Sword Coast.
Neverember was tall, broad-shouldered, and strikingly good-looking, with angular features, a mane of silver-flecked "pumpkin-brown" hair, and deep-set but shining dark eyes. He was often called a "lion of a man" for both his appearance and bearing,
By the end of his tenure as Open Lord, Neverember sported a short but thick beard that had gone grey.
A consummate politician, Neverember was a capable and inspiring leader He outwardly embodied the ideals of moderation, honesty, and responsibility. He always acted decisively and firmly, with a clear-eyed view of the costs and sacrifices that his decisions entailed, although his cunning and brutal pragmatism had earned him the nickname "Dagger" Neverember. He was also ambitious, proud, manipulative, and considered himself to be superior to everyone else&mdashwhich made him overconfident making him boisterous and dangerous. However, his charisma, flair for diplomacy, Laeral Silverhand, Dagults successor as Open Lord, once described him as a no-nonsense, energetic, and practical person.
While he did have Waterdeeps and Neverwinters best interests at heart, or assassination to secure his positions, or those who were skilled at acting with discretion.
Neverember was rarely seen without a stiff drink in hand. especially when it involved conversing with successful male adventurers or flirting with successful female adventurers.
He had a morbid fascination with the effects of the Spellplague, which included a healthy fear of its dangers. At one point, he outlawed the presence of spellscarred individuals within Neverwinter.
Neverember did not back down from a fight, and would hurl taunts at his opponents in combat. It was said that every Waterdhavian man of a certain age had grown up wanting to train with him.
thumb|left|Lord Neverember looking fine in 1479 DR.
Neverember wore colorful and extravagant clothes, including vests lined with ermine fur, cloaks made of velvet, shirts of silk from Shou Lung, and high boots of crimson Aglarondan leather. As Open Lord of Waterdeep, he wore a heavy medallion to indicate his position, He possessed an undisclosed means to protect himself from scrying, which caused magical backlash against spellcasters attempting to spy on him.
He resided at a grand manor in Waterdeep (although technically it belonged to his wife) and also owned a "modest" villa in Neverwinter, from where he conducted much of his official business.
He owned multiple ships, including a prized caravel called Neverwinters Pride.
In his office at Castle Waterdeep and at his old headquarters in the Hall of Justice in Neverwinter, Neverember kept a number of valuable (even priceless) artifacts. Among these were Ahghairons Key (which found and opened any locked door within range) and one of the eleven fragments of the Staff of Waterdeep (a fake in his office and the real piece at his manor). He was also in possession of the Crown of Neverwinter.
Neverembers goals could be somewhat enigmatic. While he acted in the best interests of his subjects, he always prioritized ways to enrich himself. In his role as Lord Protector of Neverwinter, he worked diligently to repair and rebuild the city, attract new inhabitants, facilitate trade, and ensure security. His ambition was for the city to surpass Waterdeep in grandeur. He was also highly motivated to maintain his grip on power, and ensured that even if he lost his political power, he would still retain leverage over Neverwinters economy.
While he took his role at Lord Protector of Neverwinter seriously, he had little interest in the day-to-day operations of his government, and delegated these tasks. Whenever something went wrong, he was quick to pin the blame on one of his subordinates, and then try to position himself as a champion of the people as he made an example of that subordinate.
Neverember was noted as a legendarily shrewd negotiator
Neverember was a member of the noble Neverember family, and claimed to be a descendant of Vers Never, the supposed bastard son of Nasher Alagondar and brother to Bann Alagondar, who served as Neverwinters first kings. In order to cement his relations to the royal line, Neverember paid scribes to find or create books that gave legitimacy to his birthright, and to burn any books that cast doubts on it. One such scribe was Retrigal Bookbinder. However, there was enough genealogical data left intact to prove that his claim of lineage was completely fabricated, as discovered by the Neverwintan aristocrat, Indrina Lamsensettle. 
The relationship with his son, Renaer, was estranged and complicated, eventually turning into mutual animosity. although his son frequently chafed at his fathers wishes and expectations. Even so, Neverember was said to have shown a certain pride in his sons actions and good heart, even calling him a "hero" at one point.
His wife had been a member of the noble Brandarth family of Waterdeep. Dagult had married her for her money, but when she passed away, she left everything to Renaer instead, which contributed to Dagults rocky relationship with his son.
While Open Lord, Neverember had a lover in Kalain, an eccentric half-elf painter. He had at least one other secret paramour, and also often flirted with and sent valuable gifts to Talanna Taenfeather, although she apparently was not his lover. Even in old age, he was widely regarded as a desirable bachelor.
Prior to his ouster as Open Lord, Neverember was closely allied with House Margaster of Waterdeep, and was especially close with Inkeri Margaster. After his ouster, Neverember despised the nobility and guilds of Waterdeep for their perceived betrayal, and deeply resented Laeral Silverhand for taking his position, although this sentiment was not mutual as Laeral appreciated his efforts to restore Waterdeep during his time as Open Lord. Regardless, Neverember preferred to hire adventurers and mercenaries to protect Neverwinter and train the local troops rather than accept the help of the armies of the Lords of Waterdeep, who had deposed him as Open Lord. Even so, he tried to avoid letting his feelings cloud his judgment whenever he had to fulfill his duties as a member of the Lords Alliance.
The Harpers viewed Neverembers ambitions in Neverwinter as tyrannical and imperialistic. They were involved in organizing resistance against his rule in its early years, including leadership roles with the Sons of Alagondar, a faction explicitly aligned against the Lord Protector and any right of his to rule the city of Neverwinter. These rebels dubbed him the "Lord Pretender" and, perhaps unsurprisingly, Neverember was known to be brutal in his reprisals against the Sons.
On the other hand, Dagult was known to be a good friend to the Emerald Enclave and supported the wood elves of Neverwinter Wood. Under Dagult, Neverwintans practiced sensible logging practices there.
Neverember was initially on good terms with the Ashmadai, although this was at least in part because he did not truly understand who they were, who they worshiped, or the threat that they posed to his regime, Likewise, he had several dealings with Shadovar agents, but was generally unaware of their true allegiance or the threat that they posed to Neverwinter. By contrast, he was aware of and opposed to the activities of agents from Thay in and around Neverwinter,
Neverember was a fierce political opponent of Luskans secret leader, Jarlaxle, and was an obstacle to the drows designs to get Luskan admitted to the Lords Alliance. He was also on poor terms with King Bruenor Battlehammer of Gauntlgrym, with both sides regarding the other as greedy and untrustworthy. This rivalry kept Gauntlgrym isolated from potential trade with both Neverwinter and Waterdeep for as long as Neverember ruled both.
Neverembers most reliable agents were his mercenary general, Sabine, and his lackey Soman Galt, who served as mayor of Neverwinter during its rebuilding. He had ties to the Zhentarim via an advisor named Rian Nightshade, and while he did not advertise this relationship, neither did he see a need to deny it if asked. Additionally, through the exchange of favors, trust, and coin, Neverember had managed to secure a network of faithful loyalists. These included Liset Cheldar, the owner of the Moonstone Mask in Neverwinter Harrag, the proprietor of the Beached Leviathan in Neverwinter Agada Vane, a shopkeeper and spy in Waterdeep Dalakhar, a dedicated rock gnome spy He was not above working with criminals, but he preferred that they at least pretend to be lawful or reformed.
Dagult Neverember was born into the noble Neverember family At some point he moved to Waterdeep and firmly established himself there, so much so that the people of Neverwinter did not see him as one of their own when he eventually returned.
From Waterdeep, he achieved his goal of building a mercantile empire, and became obscenely rich and thus influential. At some point, Neverember began to invest heavily in the island of Mintarn, where he founded a ship-building company as well as facilities to train mercenaries. He also bankrolled the White Sails company, which grew to become the biggest Tarnian provider of soldiers and ships for hire.
In Waterdeep, he married into the noble Brandarth family, adding his wifes broad property holdings and wealth to his own. She bore him a son, Renaer, before dying when the boy was still in his youth and leaving everything to him instead of to Dagult.
Neverember became the Open Lord of Waterdeep circa the . By this time, he had become one of the richest men in the city, and thanks to both his resources and his political acumen, Waterdeep began to thrive after years of neglect. He personally organized the sale of many noble titles to potential allies in exchange for the promise that he could rely on their support in the future, while also profiting in the present. He also immediately implemented a tax on all residents of the city, requiring them to pay one shard each month when the City Guard came knocking. Furthermore, within a year he had lost most of the City Navy after sending them to hunt Northlander pirates, and so hired a fleet of Tarnian mercenary ships to replace them (and proceeded to profit from spending Waterdeeps funds to hire companies in which he was an investor). 
In the , Neverember turned his attention to the ruined city of Neverwinter, which had been destroyed when Mount Hotenow erupted about 16 years earlier. He started the "New Neverwinter" movement to rebuild the city, claiming himself to be the "Lord Protector of Neverwinter". This role was commonly understood to be one of stewardship, with the recognition that he would legally step down if an heir to the Alagondar line of Neverwintian kings came forward to claim their throne. and Neverember had turned himself into the linchpin of Neverwinters stability by providing Neverwintians with ever-improving security, work, and access to goods.
Neverembers true intentions were popularly understood to be imperialistic, In addition to his army of mercenaries, Neverember also paid for an army of carpenters, stonemasons, and artisans to rebuild Neverwinter. To spur economic growth, he implemented a policy of few regulations on trade and low taxes on imported goods, hoping to attract back former residents as well as merchants from across Faerûn. This largely succeeded, and as the city grew, he took a keen mercantile interest in the trade and visitors coming and going via the docks. By the end of the 1470s DR, the docks had been rebuilt fully (at the cost of every tree on the Upland Rise north of the city) and a steep tariff had been imposed on incoming merchant ships.
Shortly after his arrival in the city, Neverember began prioritizing a fortification known as the Wall to keep his New Neverwinter operation safe In the , Neverember announced the completion of his "Protectors Enclave", a section in the southwest of Neverwinter that he declared to be (mostly) rebuilt and as safe as any other city. While it was more secure than the rest of the ruins&mdashit was protected by the Wall and was centered on the Hall of Justice&mdashit was also a veritable police state under the strict control of Neverember and his mercenaries who patrolled the streets, his spies who kept the residents in line, and his tax collectors who kept the operation funded. Any defiance or opposition against Neverembers rule was swiftly, and often violently, repressed within the Protectors Enclave. This ultimately led to the rise of the Sons of Alagondar, an underground movement associated with the Harpers, who were dedicated to resisting Neverembers reign in Neverwinter, fearing that his imperialistic goals would not aid the people of the city in the long run.
At some point, Lord Neverember banned the High Sun Games that were being held in the city, considering them brutal.The date of this is unknown it was when Edgin Darvis was young.
Neverember increasingly began to spend most of his time in Neverwinter, and left much of the day-to-day running of Waterdeep to his trusted lieutenants, including clerks and bureaucrats loyal to him personally and allies among the Lords of Waterdeep. He traveled to Waterdeep only irregularly, meaning his visits were hectic affairs in which he dealt with long-delayed legal and governance decisions as well as a flurry of meetings and events, including speeches, conferences with nobles and merchants, and summary court rulings. Amidst all of this, he still found time for womanizing in Waterdeep, including a year-long torrid romance with Kalain, an artist whom he met when she painted his portrait in the .
As of the , news was finally beginning to spread that Neverwinter was rebuilding, and Neverember had put out a call to invite back all who had fled following Mount Hotenows eruption.
In the , upon returning to Neverwinter from a trip to Waterdeep, Neverember survived an assassination attempt led by his Neverwintian spymaster Dhafiyand, who was secretly a member of the Red Wizards of Thay and who had acquired the legendary Crown of Neverwinter. Neverember was saved thanks to the efforts of one of his agents, Rucas Sarfael, and the aid of several members of the Sons of Alagondar who sought the Crown for themselves, but the affair ended with the Crown in Neverembers possession. It was said that the Lord Protector protested against his mercenary bodyguards efforts to keep him safe during the attack, wishing to fight his enemies head-on. He also gave a rousing speech to onlookers once his former spymaster lay dead at his feet.
His focus in Neverwinter at this time was split between fully reclaiming the Blacklake District and defending the people from both Many-Arrows orcs occupying the citys northeast and plaguechanged horrors&mdashsent by the Abolethic Sovereignty&mdashrising from the Chasm in the citys southeast. Despite great investment to ensure the citys security, Neverwinter was far from safe. Also in 1478 DR, he proclaimed the "Protectors Law", a controversial decree that any and all spellscarred or plaguechanged individuals were to be expelled from Neverwinter and sent to Helms Hold. This was accompanied by Neverember sending mercenaries to help police the town, and he quickly established sufficient political influence that the town could do little except acquiesce to his whims. 
thumb|left|250px|Lord Neverember as of 1479 DR.
By the , many in Waterdeep felt that Neverember was abusing his power, using the City Watch for his personal errands, That year, he conspired with Khondar "Ten-Rings" Naomal to find the Overlords Helm in order to find out the secrets of his fellow Lords of Waterdeep, but this relationship disintegrated when the full extent of Khondars plans to establish wizards as the rulers of Waterdeep became known.
Also in 1479 DR, a self-proclaimed "Lost Heir" of the Alagondar bloodline seemingly wearing the Crown of Neverwinter made public their claim to the throne of Neverwinter, rallying the support of the Sons of Alagondar and quickly turning public opinion against Neverember and his "tyrannical ambitions" for the city. For his part, the Lord Protector claimed that he would be happy to hand over the city to a legitimate heir, but openly questioned the Lost Heirs methods, secrecy, and refusal to parlay. Privately, he had no desire to give up the city in which he had invested so much, and so he instructed General Sabine to hire a group of adventurers to track down the so-called heir and discover their true intentions. However, the real Crown was stolen that same year following the Thayan-led Siege of Neverwinter when members of the Nashers&mdasha splinter faction of the Sons of Alagondar&mdashplotted to place their leader, Arlon Bladeshaper, on the throne.
Even after the Crown was recovered, Neverember would subsequently fend off yet another pretender to the throne in the wizard Gyrion and his Cloaked Ascendancy, who also produced a false Crown and used it to rally the Nashers against him.
Eventually, the many threats faced by Neverwinter&mdashincluding the Many-Arrows orcs, the Thayans, and the horrors of the Chasm&mdashwere brought under control, leading Neverember to institute public celebrations such as an annual jubilee and the festival of the Masquerade of Liars. He also celebrated the opening of new trade relations with Icewind Dale and New Sharandar.
In the , Neverember, along with General Sabine and Jelvus Grinch, met with Bruenor Battlehammer and Emerus Warcrown in Neverwinter to discuss the reclamation of Gauntlgrym from the drow. but the dwarves had brought an army to his doorstep to demand he relinquish any claim to Gauntlgryms riches. Caught by surprise and left with no leverage, Neverember was merely able to insist that any new dwarven realms borders would not touch the surface, and thus any trade in or out of Gauntlgrym could be taxed by him. Once the dwarves had secured the city, tensions remained high between Gauntlgrym and Neverember.
During his tenure as Open Lord, Neverember took advantage of several opportunities to enrich himself and to further his goals in Neverwinter at Waterdeeps expense. He hired mercenary companies in which he was an investor, and&mdashmost egregiously&mdashembezzled large sums of money. In one scheme, he stole half a million dragons from Waterdeeps coffers, and to conceal this sum, he made an arrangement with the gold dragon Aurinax in exchange for the Dragonstaff of Ahghairon, Aurinax would guard the gold until Neverember wanted it back. For secrecy, he then removed the information about the golds secret location from his mind, and stored it in an artifact known as the Stone of Golorr. Following the completion of this scheme in the , Neverember would also support an invasion of Luskan by the Margasters in exchange for the laundered money.
Around the same time, Neverember ordered soldiers to reclaim the ruined town of Leilon that lay between Neverwinter and Waterdeep on the High Road. Shrewdly, he ensured that all those responsible for rebuilding the town would be loyal to him personally. By spring of 1488 DR, rumblings of the Waterdhavians frustrations with his rule had already spread far and wide.
thumb|left|300px|Neverember receives bad news in 1489 DR.
Neverember was increasingly seen as a tyrannical ruler in Waterdeep, He remained a voice of pragmatism on the Council, even supporting unsavory tactics such as forming an alliance with the Red Wizards.
The decision to depose Neverember from the Open Lordship occurred while he was in Neverwinter and effectively exiled him from Waterdeep, thus severing his connections to his assets in that city, which included the hoard of money he had embezzled and the Stone of Golorr, which had been hidden in the Palace of Waterdeep. Many of his loyal clerks left alongside him, leaving Waterdeeps bureaucracy short-staffed.
Having been ousted as Open Lord of Waterdeep, Neverember focused all of his efforts in his role of Lord Protector of Neverwinter, continuing to rebuild the city, revive Neverwinters economy, and secure his grip on power. but perhaps complicated his efforts to attract wealthy families from Waterdeep to invest and settle in the city. 
The continued demand for construction work to rebuild the city served to funnel more coin into the pockets of poorer residents, earning Neverember greater popularity among them. He also began the process of training local Neverwintians to form their own army and city watch, known as the Wintershield watchmen, in order to reduce his reliance on paying Tarnian mercenaries. This also had the benefit of being quite popular with the citizenry, who still resented being policed by foreign soldiers. Furthermore, he managed to finally coordinate the closing of the Chasm in the heart of the city, and&mdashin an apparent show of humility&mdashhe moved his office into his private home and gifted the Hall of Justice to followers of Tyr to restore as a temple. These actions made him an even more worthy leader in the eyes of the Neverwintians.
Due to this commitment and his many accomplishments helping the city and its citizens, the people of Neverwinter finally accepted him as the rightful leader of their city, despite the fact that people from other lands saw him as a tyrant. While he still faced opposition, even many of the Sons of Alagondar eventually began to join him to help replace the ranks of mercenaries.
In a testament to Neverembers immense influence at this time, his ouster from Waterdeep combined with his draw down of mercenaries from Mintarn led to a crisis on the island nation as much of their reliable income dried up. At the same time, Neverember had stopped contributing to the payment of tribute to the red dragon Hoondarrh, exposing the island realm to a greater threat from the beast. Needless to say, the Tarnians largely saw this as a betrayal.
Resentment and suspicion of the former Open Lord remained rampant in Waterdeep, When a number of the Lords of Waterdeep were murdered in the , Neverember was immediately and unjustly accused of the deeds as people believed he wanted to take revenge on them over his exile. When Laeral asked him about this&mdashusing a spell to commune with him from Waterdeep and to read his mind in the process&mdashshe learned that Neverember was innocent, and he in turn learned that she wished for friendlier relations with Neverwinter.
Around this time, work on resettling Leilon neared completion. Neverember remained the de facto ruler of the town, with Neverwintian soldiers occupying it&mdashled by Sergeant Hazz Yorrum&mdashand rebuilding efforts being overseen by his agents&mdashnotably Grizzelda Copperwraught and Valdi Estapaar. Despite this, he still insisted that the settlers pay for the privilege of his troops securing the High Road between Leilon and Neverwinter. Following the Battle of Leilon, in which the townsfolk fended off an assault from two cults dedicated to Talos and Myrkul, Neverember took a more active role in the areas defense by posting large bounties on Leilons enemies.
In the , Neverember sent his spies, among them the rock gnome Dalakhar, to Waterdeep to retrieve the Stone of Golorr. None of them succeeded, and the Stone instead fell into the hands of others. This led to rumors swirling about the extent of Neverembers malfeasance as factions like the Zhentarim and the Xanathars Thieves Guild rushed to claim the stolen money for themselves.
When Indrina Lamsensettle, a noblewoman and actress, assembled genealogical information which proved that Neverember was not legitimately descended from Nasher Alagondar, she feared that he would seek to make her disappear. However, by this time he was confident enough in his position to casually dismiss her claim as lacking evidence.
As of the , Neverember was known as the man who had brought peace and stability to a mostly rebuilt Neverwinter. By then, he held autocratic power over the city, and his focus had turned to restoring Castle Never to its former glory. To accomplish this, he had begun imposing new income taxes on merchants and adventuring companies, and would sentence tax evaders to imprisonment and death in "the holes".
For all of his power, Lord Neverember suddenly took ill in the late 1490s DR, causing him to slip into a vegetative state. The previously unknown Forge Fitzwilliam seized upon this opportunity and waged a political campaign for lordship of Neverwinter, describing Neverwinters leaders as "corrupt and inept" and financing his bid for lordship using his own ill-gotten fortune. He was aided by the wizard Sofina, his top advisor, whom it was rumored had caused Neverembers sickness with her magic. Once Forge ascended to lordship over Neverwinter, he soon revived the High Sun Games that Dagult had previously banned, much to the excitement of the people. He also ordered destructive logging of Neverwinter Wood as part of reprisals against the elves and the Emerald Enclave for questioning his legitimacy.
thumb|400px|alt=Dagult handing the signed treaty to the druids of the Enclave.|Lord Neverember passing the signed protection treaty to the druids of the Emerald Enclave.
Forge would eventually be revealed as not only a conman scheming to use his position to steal from wealthy marks, but a co-conspirator in a plot by Sofina and Szass Tam to transform the attendees of the High Sun Games into undead minions of the Red Wizards of Thay. However, this plot was foiled by a group of thieves-turned-heroes Edgin Darvis, Holga Kilgore, Simon Aumar, Doric, and Forges fomer ward Kira. With the Red Wizard Sofina subdued and her magic negated, Neverember awoke from his coma and once again assumed lordship over the city. His first official act was to award medals of heroism to the five heroes and to pardon Darvis and Kilgore, who were both on the run after breaking out of the Revels End prison. His second act was to grant formal protections to the wood elves of Neverwinter Wood and their land as well as to the Emerald Enclave. Meanwhile, the fleeing Forge Fitzwilliam was apprehended by the paladin Xenk Yendar, and was sent to Revels End.