elf
Dalyria was a vampire spawn and one of the favorite "children" of the vampire lord Cazador Szarr, who resided in the Szarr Palace of Baldurs Gate in the late 15 century DR.
Dalyria was a pale-skinned elf woman with silver hair and eyes glowing with evil. Like her "siblings," Dalyrias back was carved with a circle of scars that formed a sigil written in Abyssal—a part of Cazadors ritual centuries in the making.
Before being afflicted with vampirism, Dalyria was a well-respected doctor, the Physician General to the Parliament of Baldurs Gate. When she was turned into an undead vampire spawn, Dalyria became one of the favorite "children" of the vampire lord and a "sibling" of Astarion Ancunín, the lucky vampire who escaped Cazadors influence and joined the Absolute Adversaries.
Despite being thrall to her master, Dalyria refused to submit to her misery and became convinced that vampirism was just a disease to be cured. The spawn developed a theory that the cure was hidden in a great amount of blood from a young and strong individual, one strong enough to overwhelm vampirism. She targeted the "pureblooded" daughter of her vampire spawn "sibling," Leon Onufrio. Victoria Onufrio, still just a child, was  among the inhabitants of the palace, who was able to escape with her fathers help, but Dalyria snatched the child back to the Szarr Palace. Unbeknownst to Dalyria, Victoria had a powerful curse placed on her by her father as protection. When Dalyria attempted to drain the child, the curse activated. Dalyria was found puking the cursed blood when Cazador discovered her plan and dragged her away to be punished.
Like her siblings, the purpose of Dalyrias existence was a powerful ritual to be performed by Cazador Szarr in the . As a result, the vampire spawns were to be destroyed, and their power would transform Cazador into a vampire ascendant. It was unknown if the ritual was successful and Dalyria was destroyed, or if the ritual never was completed, leaving Dalyria freed from her dark master, or if she was slain in the process.