Dan
Danilo Thann was a nobleman and wizard of Waterdeep in the mid-to-late 14 century DR and a member of House Thann, being the sixth son of Rhammas and Cassandra Thann. He was also an ex-Harper as well as a former Lord of Waterdeep and aspiring bard.He was married to Arilyn Moonblade.
He was about  tall and appeared to be under 30 as of 1361 DR. He had gray eyes and wavy shoulder-length pale-blond hair. Even among the nobles, Danilos choice of clothing was considered "extravagantly ridiculous." He commonly wore clothes that suited his theme as a dandy and dilettante, from suits of "walking grape" to the "Ruathym Adventurer garb."  Whatever he wore, he was consistently found wearing the height of fashion among the nobility of Waterdeep. He seemed particularly fond of green clothing and lots of jewelry.
When faced by the public, Danilo acted like a complete fool. He appeared spoiled, shallow, and selfish and spoke with a lazy drawl. He was widely known for his miscast spells and for generally causing mayhem. However, in truth, his foolishness was all an act that originally enabled him to more easily serve the Harpers in secret. In reality, he was a skilled spellcaster and a crafty adversary, being trained by none other than his uncle Khelben "Blackstaff" Arunsun, who at one point considered Danilo his "probable successor."
Danilo was also well-versed in subterfuge, disguise, and the manipulation of political and social threads in any given situation. His degree of expertise was such that, when he engaged the crime-lord Elaith Craulnober in a verbal sparring match, it ended in a draw.
Despite his canny intelligence and skill in subterfuge, Danilo was often quite reckless, a fact brought to light through his alternate egos naughty pranks and reckless magical experiments. There were times when Danilo completely forgot his other self and fully reverted into the comfortable guise of the fool.
Luiren Rivengut was Danilos favorite drink.
Danilo was a very skilled wizard, one whom Khelben had considered his probable heir and his apprentice with the most potential. His skill with magic was such that he mastered the art of spellsong in just a few days, he was able to charm a magically resistant green dragon into slumber, and his illusory pranks got his uncle Khelben each time. His magical skills included prismatic displays of light, fireballs, spells of invisibility, scrying, and various charm spells.
As an aspiring bard, Danilo sang and wrote a number of ballads. He had quite a lovely voice, although his public performances tended to be more along the line of bawdy and lewd in line with his dandy persona.
Danilo was a good horseman.
Danilo carried a magical bag of holding when he traveled and kept anything he could ever possibly need inside, including multiple outfits of clothing, jewelry, hats, dice, alcohol, his spellbook, herbs, wine, and sugar cubes. He carried a pendant with the Thann family crest.
Both of Danilos parents, Lady Cassandra Thann and Lord Rhammas Thann, saw Danilo only as his public guise of a fool. The disapproval of his father particularly disturbed Danilo at times. His mother was a formidable person who also disapproved of Danilos various exploits to some degree. She had elven blood, but never mentioned it, as there was some animosity towards elves in the Waterdhavian nobility.
Danilo had five older brothers, three younger sisters, and a deceased half-sister, Lilly Thann. and whom Caladorn Cassalanter attempted to court before Danilo ran him off.
His uncle was the archmage Khelben "Blackstaff" Arunsun. Although Danilo took Harper assignments from him, the two did not always see eye-to-eye when it came to the means.
Danilo was apparently quite fond of his familys swordmaster, Shaymius Sky, whom his mother wanted to get rid of because of his drunkenness. However, Danilo made arrangements to have Shaymius run a guesthouse just outside the city.
Danilo and Arilyn, who was the half-elven granddaughter of Queen Amlaruil of Evermeet, long adventured together additionally, Danilo pushed Arilyn into reconciling with her elven family. When they first met, Arilyn detested Danilos foolishness, but she later found it endearing, particularly after she learned the truth. In her opinion, he made foolishness into an art form.
Danilo was named an elf-friend by the rogue Elaith Craulnober and also befriended the rogue drow Liriel Baenre.
Danilo was well-acquainted with many members of Waterdeeps nobility. Regnet Amcathra was a close boyhood friend of his.
thumb|Danilo in mid-14 century 359x359px
Danilo began studying under the tutelage of his uncle Khelben Arunsun when he was twelve years old and his previous tutor had given up on him. It was presumably through Khelben that Danilo first began working secretly for the Harpers.
Danilo had access to Blackstaff Tower, as he was one of the Blackstaffs apprentices. In the , while talking to Khelben and Laeral Silverhand, Danilo stole a number of gems and Laerals ear cuff (granting her teleportation to the Promenade of the Dark Maiden, where her sister Qilue Veladorn dwelt) in order to track the drow Liriel Baenre, whom he had helped previously. However, Sharlarra Vendreth subsequently stole the items from him, preventing him from continuing with his plans she essentially went in his place.
In 1361 DR, Danilo was tasked by Khelben Arunsun with finding and protecting (and spying on) Arilyn Moonblade, a Harper agent who was somehow involved with the Harper Assassin. In a fortunate accident, Arilyn kidnapped Danilo at knifepoint, forcing him to travel with her to Waterdeep (although he had no intentions of escaping). Once there, the pair ran into Elaith Craulnober, who, despite Danilos clear distrust of him, aided them in their mission for Arilyns sake. Danilo was branded and nearly killed by the Harper Assassin. After seeking more information about Arilyns moonblade, the pair determined that Kymil Nimesin was trying to get hold of the sword for its elfgate ability to control a portal between Evermeet and Faerûn, and he was in fact behind the Harper Assassin, being able to control the swords elfshadow ability. Danilo, Arilyn, and Arilyns father, Bran Skorlsun, defeated Kymil and Danilo moved the elfgate from Evereska to Laeral Silverhands chambers in Blackstaff Tower. After things had settled down, Bran gave Danilo a Harper pin, not knowing that Danilo was already secretly a member. Danilo continued to work in secret for the Harpers for a time.
By the early 1370s DR, Danilo was made one of the Masked Lords of Waterdeep. In the winter of the , he investigated a rumored shadowy organization that had sprung up in the City of Splendors called the Shadowhands, who were led by the so-called "Shadowed Man," secretly a Tiamat-worshiping shadow dragon named Whisper. Danilo worked with a group of heroes from Ravens Bluff, who found themselves opposing the dragon without ever revealing him as one of the Masked Lords of Waterdeep. However, he did ask for discretion, not to reveal the existence of the organization to the folk of the City of Splendors. Subsequently, Danilos aid led the heroes of the Living City to end Whispers life.