Daramos Lauthyr was high priest of the Ladys House, the temple of Tymora in Arabel, Cormyr, in the latter half of the 14 century DR.
He wore ornate robes and looked generally distinguished.
Although considered a wise leader, he was imperious, He was by all accounts a true zealot.
Daramos was willing to engage in cheap tricks and showmanship, such as hiring commoners to fill seats at his sermons, in order to appear more impressive to visiting dignitaries.
Despite heavy resistance to his positions within the Church of Tymora, few disputed his wisdom and preeminent status. Many Tymorans outright feared him and found him unsuitable as high priest, but at the same time they admired how he positively radiated with Tymoras favor. Nearly all his failures turned to successes, and he seemed to exude luck. His fellow clergy were generally happy to cooperate with him, or at least not actively hinder him. They figured his ambition would lead to his downfall eventually, thereby solving the "problem" of Daramos Lauthyr.
His subordinate, Doust Sulwood, formerly the lord of Shadowdale was critical of Daramoss ambitions.
King Azoun IV considered Daramos to be a fanatic who was more devoted to his ambitions than to his goddess&mdashthough not by much. The King knew how much power Daramos held in Arabel and was careful not to anger him.
During the Time of Troubles of , Tymora herself sought refuge in the Ladys House in Arabel, staying there for most of the Godswar while protecting the city from the chaos that ensued. Daramos took this as a sign of the primacy of the Arabellan temple within the greater Church of Tymora. He campaigned for recognition both within the Church itself and within the state of Cormyr&mdashhe felt it was appropriate for King Azoun IV to grant him lands and the title of baron, thus giving the temple greater say in local politics. Frustrated by the lack of cooperation from both the Church and the Crown, he raised the fees for temple services to nearly double. Daramos felt the citizens of Arabel would be happy to pay a premium price given that Lady Luck had personally blessed the city with her presence. The added income was to be used toward furthering his ambitions for the Arabellan temple.
Daramoss ambitions grew further over the course of the next decade, and he began attempting to unify the Church under a single grand patriarch&mdashhimself. In his view, the Ladys House should be the center of Tymoran worship and its leader should head the entire Church. The other temples of Tymora were generally very resistant to Daramoss proposed changes, but the conflict did not devolve into open hostility. and to bring the Churchs mystics into the hierarchy proper, rather than having them report to Tymora directly.
Daramos continued squabbling with Cormyrean authorities all the while, especially with Lady Lord Myrmeen Lhal and Baron Thomdor Ammaeth on occasions where he tried to exert his authority over other faiths in Arabel. At one point, he proclaimed Myrmeen as as a willful blasphemer but had to stop when the Lady Lord called for&mdashand received&mdasha public sign from Tymora herself supporting her position. Despite continued refusals from the Crown to grant him a title, Daramos ordered his clergy to address him as "baron of Arabel." Most citizens of Arabel remained silent, hoping Daramoss fellow Tymorans would eventually grow disgusted with his greed and evict him from the Church.
Elite agents of the Night Parade planned to assassinate Daramos, alongside other powerful Arabellan magic-users, in Flamerule of the . The assassins struggled to find a way to get at Daramos since his temple was so well-guarded, and were defeated by adventurers before they could even make an attempt.
In the summer of the , heavy rainfalls opened up a large sinkhole about a hundred yards away from the Ladys House. At the bottom of the sinkhole Daramos and his priests found a hitherto hidden temple of Beshaba. The cave-in had claimed the lives of at least 37 Beshabans. Daramos took this as a divine boon from Tymora, and further proof that he was her chosen prophet, despite the fact that the sinkhole caused one of the citys springs to channel water directly into the library of the Ladys House. He vowed to petition Lady Lord Myrmeen to cede the land above the Beshaban temple to the Church of Tymora.
On Marpenoth 22 , Daramos visited the Tymoran temple of Ravens Bluff in the Vast for a major celebration. A Tymoran prophecy had foretold the birth of a person blessed by Tymora in the city on this day. While observing the revelries, Daramos was stabbed and poisoned by a group of assassins in the service of Beshaba, as part of a plot engineered by Iyachtu Xvim. The local priests of Tymora, led by Mistress of Luck Clarissa Tupkas, could only heal Daramos through an obscure ritual requiring very specific components a rabbits foot, an exotic coin, bottled essence of rainbow, and four four-leafed clovers. Furthermore, the ritual had to be conducted before dawn lest Daramoss life be forfeit. Luckily, a group of local adventurers were able to gather the required components.
Although his rule was fraught with controversy, the Church of Tymora indubitably grew in power under Daramoss leadership.