Daran Edermath was a retired drow or half-elf adventurer who dwelt in Phandalin in the late 15 century DR.Daran Edermath was originally a half-elf introduced in Lost Mine of Phandelver, but was retconned to a drow in Phandelver and Below The Shattered Obelisk. The reason for this is unknown. Its possible he is a half-drow.
Daran had silver hair and was over a hundred years old. He was a retired member of the Order of the Gauntlet, but still kept in touch with them.
Daran was quick to help, and was happy to speak and trade with newcomers to the town of Phandalin, sometimes offering them a place to stay in his apple orchard. However, he was slow to put his faith in strangers, and any hint of underhandedness could forever lose his trust. He preferred to avoid politics.
He owned a small cottage close by to his orchard.
Daran managed the Edermath Orchard in Phandalin. He grew apples and produced cider, juice, and other goods to be sold to visiting merchants and local businesses. He had a habit of hiring out-of-work miners, making him a popular figure in town.
In his earlier years, Edermath was an active agent of the Order of the Gauntlet, quelling evil throughout the Dragon Coast. Daran retired to open his apple orchard in Phandalin, though he still kept watch for evildoers in the region and maintained contact with some of the more powerful members of his order.
In 1491 DR, Daran became increasingly worried about the havoc that the Redbrands were causing in Phandalin. Anyone who spoke out or acted against them would be killed, and their family kidnapped. Daran wished that a group of adventurers would rise up and sever the head of the bandit organization by killing its leader, Glasstaff. He would tell willing adventurers that the bandits safe house was under Tresendar Manor, and that they spent much time at the Sleeping Giant tavern.
As of that same year, he had heard rumors that an excavation was going on around Old Owl Well, and that undead potentially lurked there. He believed powerful magic was dormant close to the site.
In 1496 DR, Daran became distraught when his daughter, Bertice Edermath, disappeared shortly prior to an explosion rocking the nearby Tresendar Manor. While he feared for her safety, most of the town was well aware that she had run off with a young miner named Grovet.