The Dark Urge was the name given to a white dragonborn Bhaalspawn sorcerer—and the chosen of Bhaal―who lived in the Realms during the late 15 century DR. The name referred to the murderous and violent urges he received during many events he encountered in his life.
As a white dragonborn, the Dark Urge could use a cold breath weapon, and was resistant to cold damage. He was also a storm sorcerer.
Like other Bhaalspawn, the Dark Urge had at least the capability of transforming into a bestial form of the Slayer, one avatar of the Lord of Murder. This could be done at will, but was only gifted by Bhaal at his choosing.
The goblin-like creature Sceleritas Fel served the Dark Urge and joined him during a series of grisly murders in Baldurs Gate. Sceleritas was deeply devoted to the Dark Urge and found great pride in serving him. He even claimed to share in the Dark Urges more intimate moments and that the Dark Urge was a necrophiliac. In fact, the simple question of serving another Bhaalspawn like Orin the Red made Sceleritas so queasy that he asked for the "bucket of Bhaal" to vomit in.
The Dark Urge had a turbulent relationship with his divine sister Orin. It was implied by Zethino (in fact, a shapechanged Orin) that the Dark Urge and Orin had a close relationship, with the Dark Urge being impressed by Orins skill. However, they disagreed on Bhaals doctrine and the manner of killing.
The Dark Urge commanded respect, admiration, and devotion from the cultists at the Temple of Bhaal in Baldurs Gate, inspiring them with his ruthlessness, many victims, and his cunning plans. Naaber and Sceleritas Fel claimed that Bhaal himself loved the Dark Urge the most of all his children as he had personally created him as the perfect son, compared to past Bhaalspawn.
With a relationship built on mutual respect, the Dark Urge and Enver Gortash were allies in their schemes. The two of them hatched the entire plan for creating the cult of the Absolute. When Orin betrayed the Dark Urge, Gortash was unaware of what happened, only what Orin told him and that she had made a fool of the Dark Urge. When coming face to face with the Dark Urge for the first time since then, he appeared genuinely happy to see him.
The Absolute, an illithid elder brain, had a fairly positive relationship with the Dark Urge, whom it viewed as the kingmaker that crowned it. It also admired the Dark Urges desires and methodology, even hinting that, had he still been in charge of the conspiracy of, it would have gone along with his plans more readily.
Unlike previous Bhaalspawn who had been conceived by mortal women, the Dark Urge was created directly by Bhaal from his own divine blood in a form of divine parthenogenesis. Sceleritas Fel dismissed other Bhaalspawn like Orin and Sarevok Anchev as "weeds that sprung from Bhaals loins". Sarevok also mentioned that the Dark Urge was the "purest" of the Bhaalspawn. The sheer blood-lust that he displayed impressed his father, who declared the Dark Urge to be his favored child. According to the Dark Urges own thoughts, he was created to be the last being alive, that he would finally kill himself after slaughtering the whole world in Bhaals name.
However, not being born within a Temple of Bhaal like Orin had been, the Dark Urge was left to make his way in the world alone. As an abandoned child, he was eventually adopted by a Baldurian family and lived a normal childhood until the urge manifested. It is not clear what happened to his foster family, but the Dark Urge believed that they were among his first victims. Some time after that, he was drafted into the Temple of Bhaal.
According to Sceleritas, he was first sent by Bhaal to serve the Dark Urge when he reached the age of maturity in order to guide him to his destiny. After their meeting, the two traveled the world, committing many murders and assassinations in the name of Bhaal.
In Flamerule of the , the Dark Urge murdered several people in Baldurs Gate, including Tav, an adventurer who was investigating said murders. The Dark Urge also faked his death by killing another dragonborn and using the corpse as bait to mislead investigators.
In a plot devised by the Dark Urge, he and Enver Gortash went to a raid on Mephistopheless Vault to steal the Crown of Karsus with helps from diabolist Helsik in Devils Fee. 
Some time during or before the , the Dark Urge was attacked by Orin the Red, one of Bhaals other mortal children. Orin split open her siblings skull and usurped the Dark Urges role as Bhaals Chosen and joined forces with two other chosen servants of the Dead Three.
It was unknown if the dragonborn survived the attack. His body may had been left a dead plaything in Orins bedroom in the Temple of Bhaal. However, if the Dark Urge were to survive, the attack wouldve left him with nearly no memories of his life. If that were the case, in an attempt to enslave him, Orin couldve implanted him with a mind flayer tadpole—making him the first to be implanted by the the Absolute. This infectious would result in the Dark Urge being left alone in the illithid colony underneath Moonrise Towers, until he was found by the Myrkulite necromancer Kressa Bonedaughter. Kressa then would surely have fixed the Dark Urge enough for survival and used him as the experimental subject for tadpole modification. Unlike other victims of the illithids who were completely subdued, the Dark Urge would be half conscious sometimes and attempted to free himself violently while trapped. Eventually, the Dark Urge would be sent away by an illithid nautiloid by Balthazars command.