Davy Jones, born Reinhold William Rauschpautton, was a wizard in the city of Ravens Bluff who operated a storage facility known as the Lock-Up.
Davy was a human man with short brown hair, brown eyes,
Davy was a very honorable man, having been trained in the ways of a knight. He spoke in a dignified manner and was given to writing in a formal style, though would try his best not to. He expected the lofty ideals of honor from all her interacted with, giving off a friendly demeanor with most of his customers, though especially towards women. He recognized not everyone in life was capable of being honorable, but felt such people were not worth his time. If anyone ever dishonored themselves in their dealings with him he would give them an opportunity to atone, though failure to do so could have severe consequences.
As a business owner he was rather efficient He was quite passionate about his business, preferring to let the warehouse burn down then to ever allow dishonorable hands take control of it.
As a wizard Davy knew the following spells
 armor, forget, levitate, light, locate object, magic mouth, mending, read magic, sleep, unseen servant, and wizard lock.
In terms of weaponry, Davy was only proficient in fighting with daggers.
He typically dressed in clothing that was high quality, though functional.
Some of Davys belongings were kept within one of the two-lock bins of his storage facilitys high-security area. Within the office of the Lock-Up he kept around a handful of jars of preserved hands from thieves who had tried to rob his business in the past.
Many members of the City Watch and Nightwatch were quite fond of Davy, due in part to his proclivity for buying off-duty officers ale on festival days.
The past of Davy Jones was largely shrouded in mystery due to him being tight-lipped about it. He was born Reinhold William Rauschpautton in the , in some land that was far south of Ravens Bluff. He was the third in line to inherit rule over a minor duchy in that land. He was raised with a courtiers education and trained in the ways of the knight. The eldest of his siblings, desiring no rival claimants to the Dukedom, gave him the ultimatum to be banished or suffer death.Port of Ravens Bluff (pp. 42, 45) states that Charles OKane became Mayor 20 years ago, which would set it in 1361 DR.
Reinhold traveled around for a time, but came to find that he had little interest in being a roving adventurer. He eventually chose to settle down in anonymity in the city of Ravens Bluff, having his original name known by very few. There he worked as a dock worker for some time and he used the money he earned from that profession, plus his savings, to establish the storage facility Davy Jones Lock-Up. It was during this time that Reinhold  became involved in arcane magic, though he would keep largely private about his being a wizard.