Dazmilar Starbrow was the problem child of the hero Roadwarden of the Roadwarden Guard, Arelin Starbrow, active in the mid-to-late 14 century DR.
Dazmilar was an aloof and cocky young man with dark hair and a well-groomed mustache. He was a layabout, trickster, rogue, vandal, and scoundrel. He wore an enchanted elfin chain, armed with darts and a longsword. He lived in lavishly decorated suite in the The Weary Wanderer inn in Skull Crag.
Dazmilars siblings, Kallithrea and Yemandra, had a very lowly opinion of the man. Both considered him unrealizable, conniving, and dishonorable. Kallithrea, however, saw good even in a man like Dazmilar. He, in turn, believed that neither sister was qualified to become the new Roadwarden and only Dazmilar himself was the rightful heir.
In the early 1360s DR, at the age of 29, Dazmilar Starbrow was one of the members of the Roadwarden Guard, likely being able to keep the position due to his mothers reputation. After she perished in a devious monster attack, the scoundrels son was considered for the position of the Roadwarden. With Arelin Starbrows death, the Arms of the Roadwarden were lost and scattered by the monster horde. Dazmilar was tasked with the recovery of the Sword of the Roadwarden. He was aided in the task by a group of caravan guards who recently saved Sir Dutiocss life. Preferring to keep his hands clean, Dazmilar sent his dwarvish servant Krondasz to make sure the adventurers succeed in the weapons retrieval.
When Morudel, Dazmilars father, was kidnapped by the villainous vampire Keremish and held hostage in a hin village across the Tunlands, Dazmilar insisted on a sneaky approach to the situation. The undead demanded the Arms of the Roadwarden in exchange for Morudels life. Dazmilar made a plan to buy some time via negotiations while the same group of adventurers was to find and rescue the old man.
However, this was not the end of the Keeps vampire troubles. Dazmilars brother, Vidruand Starbrow, long feared dead, reappeared wearing the Helm of the Roadwarden. The group of adventurers arrived at the Skull Crag Keeps Great Hall to witness the family reunion. Vidruands face was concealed by the helmet as he demanded the rest of the Arms to slay the adventurers, whom he claimed were responsible for Arelin Starbrows death and self him imprisoned. Without thinking, Yemandra charged at the group, sword drawn. But she found herself on the ground after Dazmilar tripped her. The rest of the gathered siblings and Sir Dutiocs saw through Vidruands lies.
With the bluffs failure, Vidruand removed the Helm of the Roadwarden, revealing his undead nature. He was a vampire. The prodigal son unleashed an army of giant rats and mobats at the gathered family but was defeated after a fierce battle. It was not quite over yet. Two sinister voices turned the heads of all in the Great Hall. Two ancient vampires glided into the castle – Khulzond and his consort Mordroka, the original masters of Skull Crag Keep. The vampires were the true leaders of the monsters and the cause of the Keeps strife. The undead proclaimed their intentions to take back what was theirs – the Keep and the Arms of the Roadwarden. Khulzond, Mordroka, Vidruand, and summoned monsters and vampires attacked the heroes, Sir Dutiocs, Dazmilar, Kallithrea, and Yemandra. A long battle raged, but the defenders of the Keep emerged victorious.
The following day, Morudel of Marsember announced that none of his children was worthy of the Roadwarden title. Dazmilar and his siblings agreed that one of the caravan guard heroes should become the next leader. It was unknown who of the group or if any one of them took the mantle, but Dazmilar proclaimed he was relieved to to be responsible for so many simpletons and left the keep with his pockets full of valuable trinkets he lifted along the way.