| parents        = Haedro Sornstern
| spouses        = 
| siblings       = 
| children       = 
| familyrefs     = 
| dynasty        = Sornstern
| start of reign = 
| end of reign   = 
| predecessor    = 
| successor      = 
| successionrefs = 
Delasko Sornstern was a Cormyrean noble in the late 15 century DR.
Per Marlin Stormserpent, he was nothing but a toady of Broryn Windstag.
Delasko Sornstern was a constant in Broryn Windstags entourage, and the two were generally companions to Kathkote Dawntard. Arclath Delcastle knew him to be associated with Marlin Stormserpent, Mellast Ormblade, Sacrast Handragon and Irlin Stonestable, as well as two other lords around Arclaths own age, Broryn Windstag and Kathkote Dawntard.
He was the son of Haedro Sornstern, and the heir of the Sornstern family.
In late Mirtul of the , Delasko Sornstern was one of the guests at the Open Feast, spending much time with his close associates Broryn Windstag and Kathkote Dawntard.
Sornstern was with Broryn Windstag and Kathkote Dawntard when the three of them entered, drunk, to the Dragonriders Club, started a brawl, and attacked Delnor a palace messenger there, almost fighting Arclath Delcastle. They were later repelled by the arrival of the city watch of Suzail, and interrogated by the War Wizards.
After the meeting, they fled towards Marlin Stormserpents residence at Stormserpent Towers, who involved them at that time in his intrigues involving blueflame items.
Later, the young lords Dawntard, Sornstern and Windstag carried out a frantic search for the axe so energetic and haphazard their search was, that they themselves expressly did not understand the intensity of their own actions. Among other actions during their search, theyd offered large amounts of coin in a number of taverns frequented by the nobility, including the Rose and Dragon, the Servant Exalted, and the Hrelto. They were unknowingly controlled by the vampire archmage Manshoon, who had them target Lord Barandror Murandrakes residence, where they finally found the axe.  Though they were pursued by the War Wizard Glathra Barcantle and Swordcaptain Dralkin along the way, and nearly ran out of breath, a spell whisked them away, teleporting them nearly all the way to Stormserpent Towers. After delivering the axe to Marlin Stormserpent, they fainted.
After the Council of the Dragon, Lord Delasko Sornstern had a brief talk with Broryn Windstag about his father Haedros learnings about blueflame items and the Imprisoners. Unknown to them, they were being spied on by the highknight Sir Talonar Winter.