Delfen Ondabarl was the greatest wizard of Daggerford and a teacher at the Sorcellers Encapsulate around 1370 DR.
Delfen Yellowknife was a human male with well-groomed and fashionably styled facial hair. His rich-looking robes betrayed his vocation of a wizard.
Delfen Yellowknife could be deemed a happy-go-lucky individual. He was friendly and gladly showed visitors around his beloved guild.
Sujit the imp was Delfens close friend and familiar ever since he rescued the little creature from its cruel master, Mogdor - Delfens bitter nemesis.
Delfen Ondabarls one time apprentice was Vexter the Master of Illusion. By the mid 14 century DR, Vexter finished his apprenticeship and adventured across the Planes.
Delfen was an adventuring wizard from Iriaebor who retired to Daggerford around 1355 DR.
After retirement, he spent his time tutoring the next generation of mages. He lived in an abandoned tower in exchange for a donation to the duchys treasure. He became famous from Icewind Dale to Calimshan as a very patient teacher of the arcane arts. Delfen also helped the local militia in all magical matters.
Circa 1372 DR Delfen was a member of the Sorcellers Encapsulate mages guild. During that time, he was distracted due to the recent disappearance of one of his dearest friends and often teared up thinking about the dire situation. The Hero of Daggerford came across him during their visit to the Encapsulates library and offered their aid, but Delfen did not have the slightest idea where even to start the search. The missing person was Sujit the imp, Delfens friend and familiar. The creature was captured by a bounty hunter, and criminal from Daggerford named Erik the Fin who was promised one thousand gold coins for the task. Mogdor, Sujits previous master wanted the creature back and punished for a betrayal. Erik successfully captured the imp but lost the chest that served as Sujits prison. The chest disappeared into Delimbiyr River and washed ashore hours away from the city, in a water cave in the Western Farmlands. The Hero of Daggerford agreed to help Erik the Fin recover his missing chest without realizing who or what was inside.
When the Hero found the mysterious talking chest, it asked to be returned to its master in the Sorcellers Encapsulate. The imp was reunited with his friend in exchange for a reward of coin, potions of healing, and a wand. Seeing this as an opportunity, Delfen Ondabarl instructed the adventurer to return a different chest to the kidnapper with a deadly surprise inside for Mogdor, his arch-nemesis.
Delfen was presumed dead around 1385 DR. However, in 1485 DR, he returned to the town, not a day older, and reclaimed possession of his tower. He was Delfen for certain, but never spoke about what had happened to him in his centurys absence.