century DR
Delina was a moon elf wild mage
Inquisitive and fearless, she may have looked vulnerable but she carried a great strength within.
thumb|right|350px|Delina, exhibiting her powerful wild magic abilities.
While Delina had tremendous natural ability wielding magic, she never truly accepted her potential to its fullest extent. The source of her power originated from emotions and her empathetic nature. It manifested in new and astounding ways when she or those she cared for were in peril, or their emotions were too overwhelming to bear.
Despite her potential innate power, Delina enjoyed using her magical abilities to bring joy to others, such as providing entertainment for children.
Delina had a complicated relationship with her twin brother Deniak. While they shared the playful competitiveness that was common among siblings, while she felt guilt and responsibility for his bitterness.
thumb|left|350px|Delina and Deniak during their youth
As a child, Delina and her brother went to magical studies together, but she frequently skipped her lessons. One day, when playing and wrestling with her brother, he scolded her for her lack of ability and he refused to let her go. Enraged, her wild magic appeared for the first time. After this point, her skills seemed to surpass Deniaks, angering him greatly and making him jealous. His emotional state transferred to his sister, causing another wild magical surge.
At some point, Deniak left for Baldurs Gate and later Delina felt her mystic bond with her brother become chilled, as if a strange darkness washed over him. At this point, she decided to travel to Baldurs Gate to save him. Minsc began attacking the creatures and killed them. During the battle, Minsc believed that Delina was his old colleague Neera. Interrupted by the city watch, they were blamed for a murder the gargoyles had committed. It became apparent to Delina that being "Neera" was useful for her search so she agreed to be called Neera. Casting color spray, they escaped and ran into a pair of thieves.
The thieves, Shandie and Krydle, helped them get to safety and agreed to help them despite the fact that they didnt have anything to trade. After getting the aid of the Fetcher for a return favor, the party was attacked by the Cult of the Dragon in an attempt to capture Delina. After a quick combat, the cultists fled without their prize. The favor the Fetcher needed was a delivery to Coran, Krydles father, who was in the upper city. In the festivities of the nobility, Delina bumped into a man she recognized as one of the Dragon Cultist ambushers. As battle ensued, she was tackled out of a high window. Fighting on the roof, she was hit with a sleep spell and captured by the cultists. When she awoke, she met Deniak, now a member of the Cult of the Dragon.
At Deniaks hideout, her brother revealed his obsession with stealing her power, by using a cult ritual and their mystic link. Her allies made a brave attempt to stop the ritual but they failed, seemingly rendering her powerless and turning Deniak into a red dragon.
After the ritual, her brother grabbed her, taking her with him to fly over the city. After a cunning plan by Kyrdle and Shandie, the dragon crashed into a building, where Delina demonstrated that her magical powers were still intact, helping to destroy her mad brother. Afterward, she planned to leave the city, considering her quest to be a failure with her brother dead and the Cult in hiding. She reconsidered after talking to her newfound allies and friends, who pressed her to stay, even being told by Minsc that Boo liked her.
thumb|right|300px|Delina strangling Krydle while under the influence of the Domains of Dread.
The newly-founded Heroes of Baldurs Gate began to find work in the city, taking on a job from Father Alby to protect the local temple of Kelemvor. While they were unable to protect the defiant Kelemvorite cleric Nerys, along with several valuable relics, from being abducted by the werewolves Dron and Utna, the group pursued the lycanthropes into a thick cloud of fog that transported them to Barovia, one of the Domains of Dread. While they were able to reunite with Nerys, they were stranded on an entirely different plane of existence.
During the journey, Delina and her companions were given shelter at the Wizard of Wines winery. The young elf suffered a terrible nightmare involving a monstrous form of her brother Deniak. When dream-Deniak began threatening Delina, she defended herself and grabbed him around the neck, unknowingly choking her new friend Krydle, who was also under some delusionary dream-like state.
thumb|left|325px|Delinas wild magic surges often led to surprising effects...
After drawing too much attention to themselves at the bizarre and horrific "Parade of Purple" led by Baron Vargas Vallakovich, the heroes once again attracted the ire of their werewolf adversaries, along with that of the newly-turned vampire Sangin, and even Strahd von Zarovich himself. Delina and her fellow heroes recovered the relics that the Lord of Barovia desired, and assailed the powerful vampire to prevent him from taking it back by force. Their attacks inflicted barely harmed Strahd, and even Delinas magic was largely ineffective. Strahd overcame the group and recovered the necklace he wanted from around Delinas neck, unleashing its magic upon himself and sealing his own fate.
Delina focused on the power of the necklace and was able to use its magic to transport her and her friends back to Faerûn on the Prime. However they wound up hundreds of miles away from their home in Baldurs Gate, in the Spine of the World mountains in the Frozenfar. Stranded in the icy cold, they carried an injured Nerys into a hidden cave that Delina inadvertently discovered and gathered their bearings. After fighting past a band of ogres, during which Delina suffered a brutal strike from an ogres club, they met the gold dragonborn Saarvin, and continued towards the settlement of Fireshear.
thumb|right|400px|...that were quite devastating when directed at others.
The Heroes of Baldurs Gate were able to get some actual rest for the first time since departing Baldurs Gate. Delina and Minsc even had the opportunity to purchase new cold-weather clothes better suited for the frigid north. The peaceful time they enjoyed was short-lived however, as Fireshear was assailed by a band of frost giants led by Lord Gryttmort. The heroes came to the small towns defense, demonstrating great prowess in battle and in Delinas case, powerful magic beyond what she had cast before. After Krydle was able to free the giants captured white dragon, Gryttmorts band was forced to flee by ship and the heroes and Saarvins allies emerged victorious.
After the group managed to bind the half-frozen giant Fjurl, the group "interrogated" their captive to learn Lord Gryttmorts plans to seize power in the region recover an orb of dragonkind from the hoard of the white dragon Nilanthe at the top of Cold Crag Peak, and use it to enslave the dragons to their will. After a short rest, they made the perilous trek up the mountainside, only to discover Nilanthe was the very same white dragon Krydle freed at the battle at Fireshear, along with the fact that Gryttmort had taken her children hostage. Just as the heroes came to agreement with Nilanthe to free her young, the frost giant raiders broke into her lair, used the orb to take control over her mind and ordered her to cave-in her own home. Thanks to Delinas newly-found power, she was able to shield her friends and new ally from harm.
Once again, Delina and her fellow adventurers took time to recover following their battle with the frost giants. They met again with Saarvin, his ally Dasharra Keldabar, and local leaders in town to prepare for and plan their attack. With the aid of Dasharras griffons, they snuck aboard one of the giants ships and arrived at their glacier fortress in the sea. They managed to sneak their way in and recover Nilanthes eggs, before attracting the attention of all the frost giants. A ferocious battle broke out between the two groups. Thanks to the fact the orb of dragonkind was removed from Gryttmorts clutches, along with a magically-enlarged Boo, the heroes were able to defeat the giants, and return safely to Fireshear with Nilanthe. In an act of selflessness, Delina returned the orb to the white dragon and ensured the safety of local townspeople.
thumb|left|300px|Delina surrounded by modrons in the plane of Mechanus.
After the heroes returned to the Sword Coast, Deline visited her friend Martikay in the city in order to gain more control over her wild surges. Markitay transported Delina to the plane of Mechanus, believing the "place of absolute order" would allow her to release her inner chaos for good. She was immediately rejected by the modrons that encountered her, and encountered a strange being that attempted to force her submission to the structure and uniformity of Mechanus. Delina rejected the order offered to her she was subsequently arrested for her chaotic nature and sentenced to exile from Mechanus back to the Prime Material plane. 
Upon her return to Baldurs Gate, Delina felt she had earned a greater understanding of her own nature and came to terms with the complications that accompanied it. Reunited together one night at a tavern, Delina and her companions found out that Nerys had been inflicted with lycanthropy by a werewolf in their previous adventure. As Delina told Father Alby, the group would do whatever it took to help their friend. They came up with a plan to free Nerys from the affliction, and subdued her bestial form, while Nerys found the inner strength to once again become whole in body and mind.
Some time during the , Delina and Minsc encountered a fiendish knight chasing down a pair of Tormish paladins, and eventually abducting one to some other plane beyond Faerûn. They rallied their friends and helped the remaining holy warrior, Aubree Lucent of Elturel, with her investigation of an infernal puzzle box by visiting Fremin Greer and learning of the eternal Blood War that raged throughout the Lower Planes. At Fremins dying direction, the adventurers continued on to the library-fortress of Candlekeep, and met with Great Reader Sylvira Savikas. 
While examining the infernal puzzle box one of Delinas wild surges transported Delina, her companions, and Aubree into the city of Elturel during its descent into the plane of Avernus. Trapped within the city tethered to the uppermost of the Nine Hells, Delina and her companions once again battled the hell knight Haruman, struck out against the devils commanded by the amnizu Thavius Kreeg, and briefly faced down the wrath of archdevil Zariel herself. They survived in the hellscape long enough to return with Elturel, as it ascended above the hells back to the Western Heartlands of Toril.