Delver was a guard at the House of the Unicorn in Nethrar, Galadorna, in the mid–8 century DR.
He was young.
He was closely loyal to the realms seneschal, Elminster Aumar.
Delver was a guard at the House of the Unicorn, the royal home of Galadorna, in Nethrar, late in the year ,In the ebook version of Temptation, the Realmslore section declares the events of the first part to happen in around five years starting 759 DR. In the first chapter, Nuressa, the warrior, tells Elminster theyre in early Mirtul. If it is assumed that the events happened in at most five and a half years, as more than five and a half years becomes around six years, then the last events in Part 1 must happen at most during Uktar of 764 DR. Given Feldrins warning during the coronation that the Lords of Laothkund are already planning an attack, this timeline seems plausible. Further development may yet alter the result. when he and fellow guard Ingrath did some services for the seneschal. His last service involved personally adulterating an "Aerwork" with a white powder, then mixing them carefully and saying a few words. The seneschal wiped away his memory of doing that and left him wandering in search of the jakes. The memory wipe was almost certainly because the seneschal sought to blunt the cruelties of the sorceress-queen of Galadorna at the time, Dasumia, which strongly implied the scrolls were hers.
Later at the Goblet of Shadows, a local tavern, Ingrath and Delver were propositioned by a disguised Dasumia into some ungentlemanlike evening activities She took them to a shrine of Bane hidden somewhere in the House of the Unicorn, where they were forced to participate in a deadly ritual. After being affected by some compulsion spell by Dasumia and whipping her until she was red and bloody, she noticed the seneschal, Elminster, hiding in the entrance. After issuing their challenges, Dasumia sent the mind-controlled guards against him. He used a spell to release them, but they were knocked out from the backlash of the unwinding magic.