The Demon was an unidentified, malevolent creature that emerged in Havenmere from a gate. It was a member of an unknown race of monstrous creatures from a distant plane that had come to dominate their environment.
The Demon was roughly humanoid and about  tall, with a broad and heavily muscled physique, and gray skin that was hairless and had a near-metallic sheen to it. It had a small head on a short, thick neck, and no protruding ears or nose, with the nostrils directly on its face, and its small red eyes set deeply between ridges of bone. It had four digits on its hands and feet, and was armed with long, curved claws. It sweated an acidic substance that gave off a bitter stink, in addition to burning those who came too close.
The Demon sought to bring ruin to the inhabitants Toril on as great a scale as possible, seeing them as inferior beings undeserving of life. It did not intend any particular cruelty or desire to inflict terror upon its victims, but simply wished to relentlessly slaughter everything it came across. Without targets available, it would randomly scratch or burn nearby plants or rocks for no particular reason.
It had some fondness for the barren, stony landscape of Thunder Gap, as it had similarities with its own home world. Attempts to read its thoughts with spells such as ESP or telepathy could only result in the caster being left dazed and reeling in confusion as the alien thoughts and emotions overwhelmed them. When facing defeat, the creature would use its magical abilities to communicate with or control its assailants, promising them anything in order to give it enough times to escape and wreak havoc elsewhere.
The Demon was a terrifying predator with a powerful body and innate magical ability, and the intelligence to use its advantages to greatest effect. It had great strength and lethal claws, and could slowly regenerate wounds inflicted on it. This healing ability was so strong that severed limbs would crawl their way back to the main body and be reattached, but not so strong that it had troll-like immortality. Its saliva and sweat were dangerously toxic acidic substances, with the saliva acting like a poison that it inflicted with its bites.
The Demons senses were extraordinarily sharp, allowing it to function in any environment. It had infravision and ultravision to a range of , and could see invisible creatures and objects. Even with complete loss of sight, its hearing and other senses were strong enough that it was barely impeded in its terrible actions.
Its body and mind were highly resilient, with the creature having functional immunity to magical and mundane fire, acids, poisons, and psionic effects, as well as spells that affected the mind such as hypnotism, hold person, paralyzation, sleep, and suggestion. It was highly resistant to all other forms of magic as well, with a better than even chance of any spell having no effect on it. Its skin was extremely tough against mundane strikes, turning away blows more efficiently than a suit of plate mail, and it was partially resistant to crushing impacts such as long falls or being buried in avalanches of stones.
The Demon had a wide array of innate magical abilities with the power of an archmage. Whenever it wished, it could create effects similar to feather fall, fumble, gust of wind, heat metal, magic missile, shatter, and slow. With a short recovery time it could repeatedly use blindness, confusion, delayed blast fireball, fireball, jump, and shocking grasp. Once per day it could use its powers to create earthquake, fire storm, power word, stun, reverse gravity, suggestion, tongues, and wall of fire.
Some time in the 14 century DR, the Demon was caught in a spontanous gate that drew it from its home plane to Toril. Amid a great magical storm that swept over the area, it appeared in the middle of Havenmere along with the hapless Wisconsinite Simon Weems. Unsure of the environment it found itself in, it retreated to the nearby Thunder Peaks to consider its next actions, slaughtering an innocent sheep and leaving a trail of flames and claw marks as it went. Adventurers arrived shortly after and rescued Weems from being burnt alive by paranoid villagers, and spoke with the local man Senecus who provided a semi-educated guess at the magical phenomena that had just taken place.
The adventurers pursued the Demon into the mountains, with the intention of bringing it and Weems close enough together again that the "vector balance" between them would cause the gates to reform and send both interlopers back to where they belonged. Despite the Demons great cunning and power, it is likely that it was overcome by the adventurers and ultimately returned to its own unfortunate plane.