Dimian Ree was the 27 Baron of Morov in the Kingdom of Damara, and ruled in the mid-to-late 14 century DR. He was the de facto ruler of the kingdoms largest city and central trade hub, Heliogabalus.
Dimian was a cruel and ruthless individual, always in search of power and would stop at nothing to achieve it.
He claimed to worship Ilmater but this was only a façade to win the allegiance of the Damaran people. 
Dimian was descended from Feldrin Bloodfeathers, the founder of Damara, and was thus distantly related to the Bloodfeathers royal family. He was a cousin of Tarkos Ree, head of the Tightpurse thieves guild.
Politically, Dimians best ally was Baroness Sylvia of Ostel. or their organizations, including the spy network Spysong and the Twilight Riders. He remained a defiant and uncooperative subordinate even after Gareth ascended the Damaran throne.
Dimian Ree was installed as the Baron of Morov by Zhengyi the Witch-King in the , after the lich killed most of the ruling families of Damara following his victory at the Ford of Goliad. Dimian replaced the former rulers, House Banacath. Prior to this, the Damaran capital city of Heliogabalus belonged to no single barony or duchy, but Dimians first decree was to claim it as part of Morov and move his baronys capital from Morovar. This was considered the first sign that he had designs of one day declaring himself King of Damara.
During the two years of Zhengyis reign, Dimian squabbled with his neighbors and extracted tribute for the Witch-King from his subjects. He was further humbled when his forces were soundly defeated, and began to lose respect among his people when he subsequently refused to support the Bloodstone army against Zhengyi, arguing it was a suicidal effort. However, Baron Gareth Dragonsbane managed to truly defeat the Witch-King, gaining immense support and leading to an exodus of soldiers and their families out of Morov. 
For the rest of 1359 DR, Dimian worked very hard to regain his support after his blunders, and soon was the principal claimant to the Damaran throne alongside Gareth Dragonsbane. and Carmathan. In order to gain more support, Dimian secretly approached both Queen Sambryl of Impiltur and the Grandfather of Assassins, although only the latter agreed to assist him. and tried to sway southern merchants into supporting him with promises of trade benefits.
Although he ultimately lost the kingship of Damara to Gareth by the end of 1359 DR, Dimian remained a powerful and defiant member of the Damaran ruling class through the 1360s DR. He maintained his alliances with both Baroness Sylvia of Ostel and Timoshenko of the Citadel of Assassins and was rumored to be carefully watching for an opportunity to supplant the king.