Lord Dimswart was one of the leading sages in service to the royalty of Cormyr in Suzail.
Dimswart was short and stout, with gray hair and sparkling blue eyes.
Dimswart was talkative, affable, and universally liked. Most people in Cormyr knew him as “"the Sage of Suzail”". He loved listening to stories and eagerly engaged in conversations with people he met. Thanks to his personality, he was very good at gathering gossips and news, which made him an unofficial reporter for his friend and comrade King Azoun IV. When meeting new clients and acquittances he loved to try impressing them by reciting all the facts he has gathered on them, both from around the town, and swift in-person deductions.
Lord Dimsward was an accomplished mage, extremely preceptive sage, well-versed in etiquette, healing, and herbalism.
Dimswart carried a large black satchel with silver latches.
In his advanced age, Dimsward spent most of his time around studying fungi in the fields and forests around Suzail and aiding people in search of a sages help.
Dimsward was a retired adventurer of the Kings Men fame. He was close with his comrades in arms King Azoun Obarskyr IV, the royal advisor Vangerdahast Aeiulvana, and his best friend and a regular drinking buddy Winefiddle.
Most of the Kings Men adventurers remained unrecorded.
In 1357 DR Alias of Westgate sought the sages help with the mysterious azure magical glyph tattoo, she woke up with one day. She arrived at the Dimswart Manor just a few days ahead of his daughter, Gaylyns wedding to a member of the noble Wyvernspur family. He was looking forward to quiet retirement after his last daughter would have left the family nest. He agreed to help the swordswoman in exchange for rescuing a bard named Olive Ruskettle who was hired to sing at the wedding but was captured by a fearsome red dragon on her way to the manor. Alias successfully returned the halfling bard and brought her just in time to save the wedding.
The wedding reception was eventually ruined by Alias. The azure glyphs forced her to attack the grooms cousin Giogi confusing him with King Azoun. The sellsword fled back to Suzail without retrieving the information Dimswart promised to collect. The sage shared the intel with his friend and Alias new traveling companion Akabar Bel Akash noting that the mage was happy the adventure found him. Dimswart did not hold a grudge against Alias as he knew that she has been branded by powerful beings and was not in control of her actions.
In 1369 DR, Dimswart was called to aid in the abraxus affair. He determined that the affliction was a venom that spread a blood disease resistant to conventional magic, causing internal organ damage.