Adventurer
Don-Jon Raskin was a human miner and retired adventurer active around Neverwinter and the Sword Coast North in the late 15 century DR. He was hired to oversee the Mountains Toe gold mine in the northern foothills of the Sword Mountains.
Don-Jon carried himself like a giant and was a man of many talents, having worked as an adventurer, a miner, a merchant, and many more jobs in-between. He had enough experience with monsters as varied as wererats and white dragons to be able to recognize marks of their presence and be generally unperturbed by the chance of encountering them. Later in life, he acted as a problem solver-for-hire in and around Neverwinter.
Don-Jon was direct and no-nonsense, but he was also known to be boastful and eager to share tales of his exploits. He was bold and willing to brave treacherous wilderness on his own, but he preferred to travel with others whom he could regale with his stories. He could be quite callous, however, generally not stopping to mourn the dead and preferring to use violence to solve problems, even referring to sentient creatures in his way as "varmints" to be exterminated. As perhaps expected from this temperament, he tended to be ill-suited to jobs that required tact or negotiation. In a fight, he was both fearless and remarkably tough, able to shrug off blows that would drop a lesser fighter.
In his youth, he spent time adventuring, prospecting, mining, trading, pirating, whaling, and shopkeeping, although some of these occupations he moved on from after only a few seasons. In the late 15 century DR, he had secured a reputation as a man who could get things done around Neverwinter, and was hired by a business consortium to oversee and overhaul the faltering gold mining operations at the Mountains Toe mine. Although he had never visited the mine, Don-Jon claimed to have some experience with gold mining, and accepted the job.
Armed with only a dagger and a sling, Unbeknownst to Don-Jon or his employers, the mine had been taken over by the Whiskered Gang, who had no intention of giving it back.