Dorgar Adarbrent was an old Waterdavian noble of the Adarbrent family with a strong interest in preserving Waterdeeps traditions.  He gave monetary support to old nobles who were down on their luck.  Dorgar was often seen wandering the paths in the City of the Dead. 	 
In his youth he fell in love with a young noble girl.  They were arranged to be married but she died of the fever when both she and Dorgar remained in Waterdeep to aid others during a plague.
In the , a rich merchant named Rampage Stunk bought several old tombs with the goal of tearing them down to construct his own massive tomb.  Unfortunately, one of the tombs was Dorgars fiancees.  In his anger, Dorgar used a necromantic spell from a spellbook belonging to a long-dead cousin to wake the dead and cause them to haunt Stunks mansion.  The spell was more powerful than Dorgar anticipated and things soon got out of hand.	 
A young wizard named Gustin Bone and his friend Sophraea Carver tracked the curse to Dorgar and he showed them how to reverse the spell and send the dead back to their tombs.  As punishment for his actions, the ghost of one of Dorgars long-dead ancestors decreed that Dorgar could not be buried in the family tomb.  The punishment was irrelevant because Dorgar had long ago purchased a small plot next to his fiancees tomb as his burial place.	 
In 1492 DR, Dorgar was confirmed to be a masked Lord of Waterdeep.
Although kind at heart, Dorgar had a fiery temper.
Due to his age, Dorgar valued highly the old ways of Waterdeep, considering the citys traditions to be what older generations need to pass down to the younger ones. Dorgar, in turn, valued the citys nobility highly and felt deeply troubled by how many of those old families were struggling to survive.
Dorgars regard for tradition further caused him to dislike much of Waterdeeps merchant class. He considered them to cause too much change in the city without regard for its history, and he resented them for feeling entitled to do so by simply being wealthy.
Dorgar was considered by much of Waterdeeps citizenry to look like a walking corpse.
Dorgar always dressed in black. When going out, he often wore a black hat and carried a sword cane with him.