Doust Sulwood (Pronounce|dowst|_|SULL|wood|refs=
Doust was born in Espar, Cormyr. His mother died giving birth to him and he was raised by his father, a drunk and an ex-soldier, until he was old enough to leave home, at which time he joined the adventuring company, the Knights of Myth Drannor.
Doust and his companions killed the Zhentarim agent Whisper at Whispers Crypt in 1355 DR.
Inside two years of becoming a Knight of Myth Drannor, Doust became Lord of Shadowdale. His companion and fellow knight, Florin Falconhand, was offered the title by Khelben "Blackstaff" Arunsun but he declined it, so Doust had the opportunity instead. During his brief lordship, Doust created a "Lords Court" a weekly gathering where the people of Shadowdale were able to speak candidly. Several attacks by Zhentil Keep occurred during this period. Because of the difficulties Doust encountered in leadership in conjunction with his following of Tymora, he resigned his lordship in 1353 DR to another of his companions, Mourngrym Amcathra, although he retained the title "Lord of Shadowdale".
Doust married Islif Lurelake and on Marpenoth 22, 1356 DR, their son, Jhaok Sulwood, was born. Doust retired from the Knights of Myth Drannor and moved with his young family to Arabel, Cormyr, to focus on family life.
During the Time of Troubles, Dousts patron deity, Tymora, visited Arabel, and the head of the Arabellan Church of Tymora, Daramos Lauthyr, became convinced of this churchs superiority over others of the same faith on account of being blessed by a goddess. As of 1368 DR, Doust attempted to combat this view.
In 1368 DR, a freak streak of heavy rain for the entire spring and summer caused a sinkhole underneath stables of an Arabellan inn, within a hundred steps of the Ladys Hall. The collapsed building exposed a hidden shrine to Beshaba and killed thirty seven worshipers of Lady Doom. Doust Sulwood, along with the High Lord Priest Daramos Lauthyr of the Ladys Hall were present during the excavation of the destroyed shrine. To Dousts annoyance, Daramos attributed the disaster to the Lady Luck and chose to lie about the House Marliir member found among the dead Beshabans. The High Lord Pries planned on petitioning to Lady Lord Myrmeen Lhal to claim the cite of the destroyed shrine for the Church of Tymora.