Drakosa, also known by the full name Drakosa yn Sallah yi Manshaka, was a petty Calishite noble who traveled to Maztica in the 14 century DR, becoming the sole Calishite landholder of the New Amnian colonies during that time.
Drakosa had a rather rotund body.
Business was a defining aspect of Drakosas personality. He was quite crafty in financial matters, but also rather greedy and self-serving.  When it came to his plantations slaves, Drakosa was a relatively lenient master, using force only when truly necessary.
Drakosa owned a pair of bracers of defense. In terms of weaponry, he owned a spear and sword.
Drakosas greatest dream as a businessman in New Amn was to one day become the governor of his own region, To this end Drakosa courted Cordell, Governor of Ulatos, and sent discreet letters to long-time friends in the Amnian court that described the very difficult tasks that Cordell had to face. He also plotted to achieve this goal by manipulating factions like the merchants, the soldiers, and even the local Payit people.
Drakosa was born in the land of Calimshan, in the city of Manshaka, to a Calishite man by the name of Sallah. Later in life he moved to the city of Memnon, where he became a noble.
Drakosa traveled to Maztica with dreams of one day becoming the governor of his own region. When he arrived to the New Amnian fortress port of Helmsport they purchased a nearby plantation and its native workforce from Jalimar Trollslayer, one of the original soldiers of the Golden Legion, who left to find the fabled City of Gold. He was capable in managing the plantation, raising tobacco and indigo. Eventually he too desired to find the fabled City of Gold, but cared too much for his own life to go on adventure like Jalimar, who went missing in his attempt. In Drakosas mind the eager, loyal, and expendable adventurers of Faerûn existed for this purpose.
In 1362 DR, he hired an adventuring party to find the Cloak of One Plume in order to give it to Governor Cordell to gain his favor. They werent a particularly experienced group, as Drakosa believed more experienced adventurers were less likely to follow orders and more likely to be missed if they disappeared. He also sent his two servants, Hasoctl and Ironspike, with the adventurers to check up on them.
At the end of 1368 DR, prior to returning to Maztica from Calimshan he purchased five jhasina based on their beauty, among them an agent of the Twisted Rune named Tara. He viewed the women as a potential status symbol, for not even the Governor of New Amn had a harem themselves, and thus by extension a political tool for furthering his goals of becoming a governor himself.
In later years, Drakosa managed to purchase most of the Payit lands, becoming the largest landholder of the New Amnian colonies. Then in late 1369 DR, he hired a small group of Legionnaires with Cordells permission and traveled up river past the city of Qoral, establishing a new plantation colony by the name of Drakmul. Within eight months Drakosas colony proved to be very prosperous and he planned to establish a trail to the village of Patil.
The Twisted Rune viewed Drakosa as a useful tool in their own schemes, due to his activities upsetting the Amnians hold on the lands of Maztica. One of their members, Jymahna the Enchantress, felt he should die so that their agent Tara would be free to live among the natives and learn their elusive forms of divine magic, hishna and pluma. But the lich Rhangaun advised patience instead, as he felt that Drakosas greed would eventually lead him to press farther north into the jungles of Anchorome, wherein Drakosa may catch a glimpse of what Rhangaun truly sought &mdash the secret magic of that lands wild elves &mdash and would most likely die while there.