Dugald was a human man of Damara and a cleric of Ilmater and St. Dionysus. He was a famous adventuring cleric of the Bloodstone Lands and one of its saviors.
Dugald was raised in a lower-class background, perhaps as a peasant, and behaved as such, even after he took his holy vows to Ilmater. He was looked down upon by his peers in the priesthood, for his rough, common ways and for his drunkenness and frequent involvement in bar fights, and they treated him like a peasant. Equally, Dugald had little desire to settle down and tend to a parish or to become a church leader and suffer the administration. Thus he did not rise far in the church hierarchy, and preferred the life of an itinerant friar. He found a kindred spirit in St. Dionysus of Ilmater and joined the Order of St. Dionysus.
So, in ruined Damara under the grip of Zhengyi the Witch-King in the 1350s DR, while his fellow clergy remained safe in their churches, Friar Dugald became an adventurer, out wandering and performing good deeds. Along the way, Dugald was knighted for his services by Baron Tranth but refused to use his new title.
While on their quest, Dugald grew to like the people of Bloodstone Pass, and decided to settle down amongst them to minister to them. Dugald placed a bounty on members of the Thunkers, a band of giantkin and goblins terrorizing Damara, for their bombing of Bloodstone Village during the war.
Though he was one to have few possessions, However, despite his role in its funding and supervising its construction, Friar Dugald had no plans to serve as pastor for the church, and it wasnt even in his home province.
When not performing church services and advising the king, Dugald continued to live amongst the common people. Inconspicuously, he always paid attention to rumors of danger and threats to Gareth, and was especially interested in news about the bandit army plaguing Damara. He never put away his adventuring gear so that he could one day personally thwart the plans of the Citadel of Assassins and defeat Banak, the evil priest of Orcus.
Friar Dugald was of impressive build and enormously fat, weighing almost 400 lb (181 kg), with meaty arms and a flabby head. He kept his head shaved bald in the way of many monks. He was usually seen smiling. His fat, jolly appearance misled many warriors into underestimating his power in battle, and he was actually quite fit and hardy.
Dugald was a jolly and good-hearted man, often smiling. He was a man with simple tastes, loving a good meal and a lot of drink. He was often drunk and always ready to get involved in a barroom brawl.
Nevertheless, he was entirely genuine in his faith, and a devout priest of Ilmater and St. Dionysus. He actively worked in their name and fought for good causes.
Dugald was an extremely powerful priest of Ilmater.
His skills included mountaineering, swimming, fishing, riding, fire-making and, of course, drinking.
He always wore a set of old, worn-out, brown monks robes with a hood and rope belt. He also owned a suit of magical chain mail which he wore when needed, putting his robe on over his armor.
In battle, Dugald wielded a mace of disruption, that he normally kept tucked in his rope belt, and a powerful magic shield.
Although Friar Dugald generally did not own many possessions, his adventures brought him great wealth and magical items. In addition to his mace, shield, and armor, he had a ring of truth, a rod of resurrection, a figurine of wondrous power that conjured a marble woolly mammoth, and a selection of scrolls and potions.
He was also carried about by Otho, his draft horse.
Friar Dugald could count as allies his fellow heroes of the Bloodstone Lands King Gareth Dragonsbane, Kane, Celedon Kierney, Emelyn the Gray, Olwen Forest-Friend, and Riordan Parnell.
Dugald had a particular desire to defeat Banak, the evil priest of Orcus of the Citadel of Assassins and leader of an army of bandits and undead.