Durwyn was a young city guardsman from Phlan who was sucked into the life of adventure when he joined the Veiled Ones in their quest to stop the Cult of the Dragon in Myth Drannor in 1369 DR.
Durwyn was a giant among his peers.  tall, his shoulders and limbs were bulging with muscles. His coarse blond hair was kept short to keep it out of the eyes. His wide face has squared with the jaw that sat atop a thick and muscular neck. Many noticed his kind eyes that turned into fierce orbs of determination in battle.
Big, strong, and obedient, Durwyn was a loyal man who held his friends and familys safety as the top priority. He was always passed with promotions due to his lack of leadership skills and personality. It was something Durwyn was content with before his adventures with the Veiled Ones in Myth Drannor.
Durwyn was not a quick thinker, especially in times of crisis. But if discussions about strategies and plans stretched into long tirades, Durwy was ready to suggest a quick and simple approach others tended to overlook.
It usually took a bit of time for others to appreciate Durwyn for his personality rather than for his brawn. He had a big heart, and he always tried to do the right thing even when the right thing was unclear. When his adventuring party argued or was torn by internal conflicts, Durwyn found himself torn between trying to follow each opinion that sounded convincing to him.
A trained warrior, Durwyn was proficient with most types of arms and armor. His weapons of choice were battleaxes, light crossbows, and shortbows.
Durwyn wore the enchanted +3 chainmail gifted to him by Harldain lronbar of Myth Drannor and wielded a simple battleaxe. Durwyn also carried three bronze-tipped arrows decorated with strange carvings.
Durwyn held his abundant family members in high regard and was ready to do everything he could to support them and keep them safe from the dangers of the world.
Ghleanna Stormlake was warm towards Durwyn, thinking him to be a gentle giant. In turn, Durwyn was impressed and smitten by the young half-elfs arcane powers. Corran DArcey was an inspiration to Durwyn for the paladins commanding presence and military skill. Kestrel intimidated the young guardsman with her attitude and sharp tongue, but he grew to respect her mind and admire her keen senses and wits.
Durwyn was born on a farm just outside of Phlan, the eighth child out of eleven. The simple life of the household was filled with love, affection, and laughter. His happy childhood was punctuated by often scarcity of food and good clothes, leaving Durwyn and his siblings to wear hand-me-downs from their older kin.
Circa 1364 DR, at the age of thirteen, Durwyn followed his older brothers example and left the family farm to ease the financial strain on them. Just like his brother, he joined Phlans city guard. Even though he was extremely young, Durwyn was eagerly accepted into the guard, thanks to the kids size and musculature. With the guards of Phlan, he received his weapons and warrior training, especially excelling in the use of battleaxes and shortbows.
By 1369 DR, Durwyns been with the guard for five years and was well-respected by his superiors for his loyalty and discipline. He was renowned for unwaveringly and unquestioningly carrying out orders and gladly taking on difficult and taxing tasks. Despite all the accolades, Durwyn was never considered for promotion as the captains fully realized that the burly young man was not a leader. Throughout his service as a guard, he sent half of his pay to his parents weekly.
In 1369 DR, the city of Phlan found its dreaded pool of radiance resurgent in the same chamber it was back when the town was under the tyranny of Tyranthraxus around thirty years prior. Durwyn was tasked with guarding the dangerous life-devouring corrupted pool. Aware of legends and stories of the pools of radiance that dotted Phlan history, Durwyn eagerly took on the task, dedicated to keeping the corruption away from the citizens of the city and especially from his family.