Harper agent
| age            = 
| patron deity   = 
| languages      = Common
| basicrefs      = 
| reckoning      = 
| dob            = 
| dobnotes       = 
| turned         = 
| turnednotes    = 
| death          = 
| deathnotes     = 
| destroyed      = 
| destroyednotes = 
| daterefs       = 
| parents        = 
| spouses        =  Zia Darvis (deceased)
| siblings       = 
| children       = Kira Darvis
| familyrefs     = 
| dynasty        = 
| start of reign = 
| end of reign   = 
| predecessor    = 
| successor      = 
| successionrefs = 
| alignment1e    = 
| class1e        = 
| refs1e         = 
| alignment2e    = 
| class2e        = 
| refs2e         = 
| alignment3e    = 
| challenge3e    = 
| class3e        = 
| refs3e         = 
| alignment35    = 
| challenge35    = 
| class35        = 
| refs35         = 
| alignment4e    = 
| class4e        = 
| refs4e         = 
| alignment5e    = Chaotic good
| challenge5e    = 5
| class5e        = Bard
| refs5e         = 
Edgin Darvis, 
Considered handsome, he had keen blue eyes and dark hair. Two years in prison left Edgin with long and unkempt hair and a scruffy beard.
He typically wore a dark gray leather jacket done up with buckles over a loose dark-blue shirt, with brown breeches, and boots, with a belt and pouch. He kept his lute slung over back.
Edgin was charismatic and confident with a rakish manner, but beneath it he was a natural leader. He could be creative, charming, and inspiring, and enjoyed the thrill of a heist. Despite his life of crime, he maintained his former moral code and would steal only from those he thought deserved to be embarrassed and to be relieved of their excess riches. He would also try to make good on his past failures, both as a thief and as a father. He thought he was smart. However, he had little patience and less interest in listening to others advice, wisdom, or history lessons, yet would insist others hear his story.
He played a lute. He had a habit of using it to wallop or trip people in a fight, so the instrument was specially reinforced for, or maybe because of, such incidents, and also much patched.
He wore leather armor and wielded a shortsword. As a former member of the Harpers, he kept their uniform, armor, and cloak, as well as the Harper pin, though likely lost these after betraying the order.
thumb|left|Edgin playing the lute. Yeah, hes alright.
With a knack for improvisation and strategizing, Edgin claimed to be skilled in making plans, and in making fresh plans if the old plans failed, and so on. Instead of depending on magical or combat ability, he preferred to use his charisma and try to talk his way out of any trouble. He could also inspire his companions with a few well-chosen words. He had skills in persuasion, deception, and sleight of hand.
A talented performer, he sang and played the lute&mdashperforming such works as "Juice of the Vine" and "When the Battle is Over"&mdashas well as told tales. However, Holga did not generally appreciate his music.
He was capable of casting several spells, namely friends and message at will, disguise self and charm person thrice a day, and suggestion once a day. With his magical words, he could taunt and disorient three opponents up to  away. He could also inspire and encourage an ally who was failing at a task, possibly helping them succeed at it.
In battle, he struck with a thunderous impact.
thumb|right|Kira and Edgin.
He was married to Zia, with whom he had a daughter, Kira. Zia would often try to cheer Edgin up, such as by throwing vegetables at him in a playful moment when he glumly stirred his soup. A sapphire dragonfly always reminded Edgin of Zia and her smile.
Edgin loved his daughter Kira above all else and all he did was to protect and provide for her, but it hurt him to be separated from her. He would feel he was a terrible father for failing to be with her and for pursuing his own needs instead.
He was a long-time companion of Holga Kilgore. While people might mistake them for a married couple, they were amused and offended by the idea&mdashEdgin amused and Holga offended. In fact, they said they were more like brother and sister, and seemed to have developed the same care for one another and the same sibling rivalry with good-natured teasing.
thumb|right|250px|Zia and Edgin kiss over the newborn Kira at the door of their cottage.
Edgin, Zia, and Kira, and later Holga, lived together in their small cottage outside of Targos.
Edgins father once took him to see the last High Sun Games in Neverwinter before they were banned. He would recall seeing one contestant make it to the last round, before he was half-eaten by a remorhaz.
At one point while living together, Edgin and Zia found a sapphire dragonfly had gotten into the room of their cottage as they lay in bed. As Edgin capered about trying to catch it, Zia simply laughed and opened a window to let it fly out. He was thinking of joining the Harpers at the time.
In time, Edgin did become a member of the Harpers, after taking the oath in the 1480s DR whilst Zia was pregnant with Kira. The ceremony took place beside a waterfall in the woods and was officiated by an elven High Harper. Zia was behind him, supporting his choice and knowing the risks, even that their unborn child might lose her father.
In his brief time with the Harpers, Edgin often adopted a cover as a minstrel or as a beggar so that he might on spy on targets. Once, whilst posing as a beggar, he used his lute to trip up a githyanki bandit. While undercover, Edgin sailed on the Midnight Fire vessel along the Sword Coast, during which time he survived an encounter with a sea hag. Another Harper business brought Edgin to the town of Daggerford where he worked with a fellow Harper named Thelvyn Kip. Edgin and Kip fought shoulder-to-shoulder on at least two separate occasions. Overall, he defended Faerûn from "creatures, crooks, and cretins" as he put it. But given his familys modest living standards, Edgin came to chafe at his Harper code, even though Zia hardly cared.
Then, on one mission, Edgin and two fellow Harpers captured a Red Wizard of Thay in his treasure-stuffed lair. Temptation got the better of Edgin then, and he stole a gold token, little thinking it might be magically marked. It was a fateful decision. By tracing that gold, four Red Wizards rode into Targos one night and came to his cottage seeking revenge. But Edgin was away, so they attacked Zia, but not before she was able to hide the newborn Kira in a hidden compartment in the wall. When Edgin came home, he found Zia laying dying. Worse, the Red Wizard blade prevented resurrection. Afterward, Edgin blamed himself, abandoned his oath to the Harpers, and burned his book of the Harper code upon Zias funeral pyre. He noticed a familiar sapphire dragonfly hovering above the pyre. He would be a hero no more. Nevertheless, the Harpers would continue to keep an eye on him.
thumb|right|Oh, right, whod want him?
Suddenly a single father and penniless, Edgin struggled to take care of young Kira for the following few months. Then, down on his luck, Edgin had a chance meeting with the exiled Elk tribe barbarian Holga, shortly after Kiras birth. The meeting took place at the Trip and Shuffle tavern in Targos after Edgin suffered from many sleepless nights and the unending cries of the newborn. Desperate for some food and comfort, Edgin used his dwindling emergency funds for a bowl of stew, a tankard of ale, and milk for the daughter. Calm and relaxed, Edgin slipped into sleep with the cooing baby next to him. When the ex-Harper woke up, Holga was there, holding Kira. Still groggy and confused from passing out, Edgin lashed out at the stranger who was taking his child, but Holga stopped the attack with one hand before it could begin. Edgin quickly realized that the barbarian woman and his newborn were enamored with each other. Holga had noticed the father dozing off and kept an eye on the newborn, keeping her safe. After dinner, Holga walked the young father home and hesitated to leave. Edgin realized that she had nowhere to go and offered Holga a room to stay for a few days. Holga never left and Kira never cried again. The duo became fast friends, even like adopted siblings, though she later alleged she just needed someplace to sleep out of the cold and had felt sorry for Kira. Without coin, skills, or other prospects, the pair turned to crime, at first just to provide for Kira. When both tried to rob the same pawn shop in Targos—the shops owner was an agent of the Zhentarim, and the goods ill-gotten—this led Edgin and Holga into a life of adventuring and theft.
Four years later, they made a smash-and-grab robbery of a jewelry store, simply breaking the window with a rock and making off with the jewels. Holga gifted one piece, a jeweled pendant, to Kira, who promptly disappeared! Fortunately, she soon reappeared with what they realized what was a pendant of invisibility.
Eventually, when she was old enough to understand what they did, Kira insisted on joining them. After that, they took the girl with them on their robberies, having Kira sneak about unseen inside manor houses to steal valuables and pass them out to Edgin while Holga took the heavier stuff. In one incident, Edgin and Holga robbed the house of the unscrupulous Lord and Lady Bantakent, while the invisible Kira played up a fake ghost haunting to distract the owners, even waving their dog Miffles through the air.
thumb|left|250px|Thieves always getting the gold always, somehow, still poor.
Later, in the 1490s DR, Holga and Edgin formed a team with the confidence trickster Forge Fitzwilliam after a chance meeting at the Trip and Shuffle in Targos. With Holgas encouragement, Edgin attempted to sing for the audience after nine years of not being able to due to trauma. The bard consumed too much liquid courage, leading to his performance becoming a public failure. This was when Forge pranced in, seeing an easy mark. The thieves played Three-Dragon Ante, but Edgin was better at noticing cheating while drunk, and Forge quickly recognized a fellow hustler. The competition between two cheats was cut short by a raiding party of gnolls who started a fight but got away with the thieves gold. Edgin, Holga, and Forge pursued the raiders, trying to retrieve stolen coin. The group ended up saving a Targossan child, Sief Talvick, Edgins neighbors kid, whod been taken by the gnolls. This rescue made the trio heroes in the eyes of the locals.
Soon after, Forge waltzed into Eds life once again, having found two villagers whose drinking buddy had gone missing, along with several other people. The villagers were offering a hefty donation for the rescue, and Forge thought the job to be easy money. Forge convinced Edgin to travel to a "haunted" island just off the Sword Coast. There, Edgin, Holga, and Forge found a single survivor the sorcerer Simon, whod also been hired by the villages but also gone missing. The young half-elf convinced the thieves to rescue him in exchange for information that would lead them to a greater mark the estate of the wealthy and eccentric dragonborn wizard Torlinn Shrake. Subsequently, a green hag named Drueena was revealed to be responsible for the disappearances. With the sorcerers help, the group ended the creatures life but received no reward.
Following Simons lead, the band set their eyes on Staff of Aorth that was kept in the West Caraway Acres estate of the wealthy and eccentric dragonborn wizard Torlinn Shrake. Simon had a contact within the manse – Alyanna, a disgruntled servant who joined Edgins crew for the heist. In order to infiltrate the estate, they hatched a plan to use the dragonborns lavish parties, and a masquerade was coming up. Forge had an acquaintance who had an invitation to the West Caraway Acres, a woman named Lady Sofina. Forge claimed he knew the mysterious woman from a failed attempt to steal emerald earrings some time ago. The con artist, Edgin, and Kira visited the strange womans home in Longsaddle. Sofina revealed that she had eyes on the wizard for quite some time and was curious to see what would come out of the heist. Forge used his forgery skills to copy Sofinas invitations. The woman showed interest in Edgin, while he got uncannily creepy feeling about the woman. The group split into two Forge, Ed, and Kira used invitations and arrived as guests, while Simon and Holga posed as servants. Subsequently, the thieves, including Alyanna, became trapped in Torlinns dungeon of traps and monsters and stumbled across... Torlinn, locked in a cage and emaciated from years of imprisonment. The dragonborn wizard who hosted parties was revealed to be beholder Sharrestren, who took on the wizards guise after he lost a spell duel. The heist culminated in the Staff of Aorth being used to destroy itself, the beholder, and the real Torlinn in a magical explosion. However, Edgin and his thieves escaped with lesser treasures plundered from the West Caraway Acres vault.
They were also caught in a town threatened by the Bandit King on one Feast of the Moon. Throughout their schemes and heists together, Forge was always urging them to set their sights on higher targets and greater riches. Nevertheless, Edgin retained something of his old Harper sensibilities and saw to it that they never hurt anyone and only stole from those who wouldnt suffer for the loss.
At one point, they did a robbery in Loudwater Edgin would recall that Simon couldnt get his spider climb spell to work until the cooper Jolym set his dog on him. On another robbery, they stole the spear of the war mage Aoth Thezim, but when arrows were shot at them, Simon couldnt cast stoneskin until the last moment.
Finally, one night whilst they were celebrating a score at the Trip and Shuffle tavern in Targos, a mysterious hooded figure calling herself "Lady Sofina" met the team. She wanted to hire them to help her steal the treasures of Korinns Keep, a Harper storehouse that only a Harper could enter—Edgin. He refused, however, still having some standards. But Forge promised they would find there a Tablet of Reawakening, a magical relic capable of resurrecting one deceased soul, even one killed as Zia had been. Against his better judgement but with hopes of restoring Zia to life, Edgin relented and acquiesced to Sofinas scheme. However, this time he reasoned it was too dangerous to bring Kira and so left her with a friend in Targos, promising it would be their last robbery, but he didnt tell her of the Tablet for fear of getting her hopes up only to dash them later if he failed.
thumb|right|350px|Edgin making the next biggest mistake of his life.
Donning his old Harper uniform, cloak, and Harper pin, Edgin led the team to Korinns Keep and gained admittance by using his pin. While the thieves helped themselves to the treasures of the vault, and Sofina claimed a strange red horn, Edgin went for the Tablet of Reawakening. But the poor thief triggered an alarm, summoning Harper guards, whom Sofina struck with chain lightning, to Edgins dismay. She then cast time stop, trapping the guards, Holga, and Edgin while she, Forge, and Simon made their escape. Edgins last act was to throw the Tablet to Forge and beg him to take care of Kira. He promised he would. Afterward, once the spell expired, Edgin and Holga were left at the scene of the crime and captured by the Harpers.
Convicted of crimes of skullduggery and grand larceny by the justice of the Lords Alliance, Edgin and Holga were incarcerated in the Revels End prison in the Frozenfar, atop a cliff beside the Sea of Moving Ice. At first, he would try to tell himself it was a misunderstanding and they wouldnt be there long. He relied on Holga to protect him from other prisoners.
In the late 1490s DR, they received a new cellmate, the murderous hobgoblin Gorg. While Edgin played at being polite, Gorg only sleazed onto Holga, until she beat him up and knocked him out cold. Later that day whilst out cutting ice, Edgin was discussing his plans for the Council when a prisoner fell through the ice, threatening to pull the whole chain-gang into the river after him. The guard Tobias broke the chain with his longsword, sacrificing the prisoner to save the others, but ordered them all back to work.
thumb|left|250px|Edgin makes his statement before the Absolution Council, no doubt using all of the bards skills as an orator...
The following day, after two years of imprisonment, Edgin and Holga were brought before the Absolution Council—Voss Anderton, Kriv Norixius, and Jil Torbo—to be considered for a pardon. Edgin hoped for Chancellor Jarnathan to be there,
Over a few days, they fled on foot across the ice, stole two horses from a Reghedmen camp, and rode to Targos and to their old cottage. They found it boarded-up and abandoned, but Edgin at least managed to retrieve his lute. Wondering where Kira and Forge were, they went to the Trip and Shuffle tavern, where they made travel plans and learned from a flyer that Forge was somehow now Lord of Neverwinter and had revived the High Sun Games. They decided to go there and ask him where Kira was, and road along the coast and the High Road to Neverwinter, where they found preparations for the games underway.
thumb|right|350px|Father and daughter have a less-than-joyous reunion.
thumb|right|350px|Holga and Edgin get stuck in. The floor, that is.
At Castle Never though, they had a less-than-warm reception. Lord Forge kept them waiting and Kira was now eleven years old and estranged from her father. Moreover, Forge was still working with the wizard Sofina. With years of dear Uncle Forge lying and turning her against Edgin, Kira thought hed just abandoned her to seek more riches and didnt believe him when he gave his real reason, to resurrect her mother. Finally, Forge revealed a wanted poster with a bounty for Edgin and Holga, causing Kira to run away in tears. Forge refused to return Kira and threatened to sell the Tablet of Reawakening in Skullport, and when Holga and Edgin got angry and went to grab him, Sofina cast a spell to trap them in the floor. Forge ordered Blackwood of the Neverwinter Guard to take them back to Revels End, but Sofina told Blackwood to kill them in secret, and he led them into a shadowy back alley to execute them. Fortunately, Holga escaped and defeated the guards.
Afterward, whilst leaving Neverwinter and discussing plans for rescuing Kira, Edgin resolved that they had to infiltrate Castle Never and rescue her, and that for this they would need to assemble a team. And to pay them, they would need to rob the castle vaults, and they could retrieve the Tablet of Reawakening while they were at it.
Their first stop was Triboar, to find the sorcerer and petty thief Simon. They found him in the Triboar playhouse, magically pickpocketing patrons, though their appearance surprised him and ruined both his show and his thefts. After he escaped the angry mob that was his audience when he was caught out, the trio fled town.
Afterward, Simon suggested they recruit Doric for her wild shape ability to help infiltrate the castle. Simon led them into Neverwinter Wood, where they found Neverwintan soldiers about to execute a wood elf. As Lord of Neverwinter, Forge had painted the wood elves of Neverwinter Wood as enemies and traitors and dispatched loggers who cut ever deeper into the woods, though Doric, a druid of the Emerald Enclave was leading the fightback. After witnessing her wild shape into an owlbear and rescue the elf from execution by Forges men, Edgin, Holga, and Simon followed her to their village Later, Dorics spying within Castle Never revealed Sofina was a Red Wizard and that the vault was protected with a powerful Mordenkainens arcane seal. To break in, Edgin proposed that they find the long-lost helmet of disjunction that could break all magic. Holgas people, the Elk tribe, had once battled the Cult of the Dragon and the black dragon Rakor for control of the helmet at the Battle of the Evermoors a century ago.
After a stopover in Longsaddle so Holga could catch up with her ex-husband Marlamin, After several attempts, they finally learned from the body of Ven Salafin that a Thayan named Xenk Yendar had retrieved the helmet of disjunction. Edgin was disgusted, thinking all Thayans were killers and corrupted by the Red Wizards evil. Though he was unwilling to work with a Thayan, Holga reminded him of his goal and vowed to cut him in half if he proved to be evil.
Fortunately, they could find the heroic paladin Xenk just nearby, in Mornbryns Shield, though Edgin remained distrustful. In a Harper sanctuary beneath Caldreths Pickles, Nuts, and Foods, Xenk told them of the evil of the Red Wizards and Szass Tams takeover of Thay and the turning of its populace to undeath, but Edgin was not interested in details. Xenk was unwilling to aid in a theft so, for his assistance in finding the helmet of disjunction, Edgin carelessly proposed to share any stolen riches with the Neverwintan people. Xenk saw through his deceit and required that Edgin swear to it on a book of the Harper code. Edgin very reluctantly agreed, and Xenk gave him the book, but he just passed it to Simon.
Xenk led the party to the Kryptgarden Forest, where an entrance to the Underdark lay. On the way, he asked about Edgins past, why he had left the Harpers and Zias death, whilst warning that Zia may not be willing to be resurrected. He also tried to improve Edgins views of Thayans by sharing his own tragic past. However, Edgin was not too interested in hearing it.
thumb|left|350px|Confronted by undead assassins, brave Edgin stands and draws his stringed instrument.
After venturing down into the Underdark, the party passed intellect devourers and arrived at the ruins of Dolblunde, wherein Xenk had hidden the helmet of disjunction long ago. Negotiating the trapped collapsing bridges (by triggering and collapsing them) and with Simon using a Hither-Thither Staff Holga had got from Marlamin to create portals with which to get across, they easily reached and retrieved the helm. But that was when a band of undead Thayan assassins led by Dralas showed up, having been sent by Sofina to find and kill the thieves after Dorics spying.
Some time later, with the helmet of disjunction in their possession, they emerged in the Sea of Swords and swam to shore. There, Xenk said his farewells and departed though they asked him to stay and assist them, he preferred to let Edgin, Holga, Simon, and Doric use what they had and rise to the occasion themselves rather than keep carrying them himself. Edgin declared them victorious and a fine team of thieves, and ready to go on and rob Castle Never. It wouldnt be so easy, however. Simon struggled to attune to the helmet of disjunction and eventually admitted this to Edgin, revealing to the others that hed made him lie about being able to do it, which angered Doric and Holga about the wasted time and effort. Edgins efforts to encourage them to carry on failed and they almost abandoned the quest and went their separate ways. Finally, he argued they were all failures and needed to keep trying and failing, and would only fail if they gave up. Edgin admitted his own greatest failure, of how his theft from the Red Wizard led to Zias death. Ultimately, the team chose to remain together and try again. Holga suggested a new plan using the hither-thither staff to put a portal on a piece of treasure they could smuggle into the vault.
After camping on the beach for several hours, they headed back to Neverwinter. From a market, Edgin purchased a painting of the famed travelogue writer Volothamp Geddarm for their plan. First, they removed the canvas, put a portal on the board, and Doric daubed sap on the frame for glue. On the High Road, Edgin hid under leaves as the wagon rolled over and attached the painting to the bottom of the wagon. Working through the portal, Holga removed the floorboards and Doric fell through the portal and into the wagon. But then the painting became unstuck as she tried to pull it through the hole fortunately, Simon grabbed Doric through the portal and they managed to recover the painting and pull it into the wagon. With it flat on the floor, Holga reattached the floorboards through the portal and Simon closed the portal. Doric replaced the canvas and wild shaped into a fly to leave the wagon.
thumb|right|350px|Edgin tables the new plan.
Heading into Neverwinter during the opening of the High Sun Games, they rented an upstairs meeting room at the Driftwood Tavern, not realizing they were recognized by Jil Torbo of the Absolution Council, who would summon the Neverwinter Guard. In their room, they tried to use their portal, but the painting had fallen flat on the floor, proving to be a nigh-impenetrable barrier. While Doric chiseled a hole in the floor through the portal in hopes of slipping through as a worm, Edgin proposed Simon try again with the helmet of disjunction to break the Mordenkainens arcane seal. Simon gave them all sending stones with which to communicate.
Edgin, Holga, and Simon sneaked into Castle Never by distracting the guards with Simons major image of Edgin singing and playing songs. It proved more of a distraction when Simon got his foot stuck in a pothole, lost concentration, and it distorted horribly. Discovering the illusion, the guards gave chase, but the thieves got inside and pulled down the portcullis. Inside now, the party split up, with Holga and Simon going to the vault and Edgin searching for Kira. Finding her room, he confessed he had been terrible father, for abandoning her to resurrect his wife, not the mother shed never known. But it fell on mocking ears—it was not Kira at all, but Sofina, who threw off her disguise and caught him in her Evards black tentacles spell. Forge entered and taunted him, but Edgin pleaded for a fighting chance, that is, to compete in the High Sun Games. Though Forge was reluctant, perhaps to spare Edgin a fate worse than death, Sofina agreed.
thumb|The High Sun Games and Edgin Darvis being observed from the extra-planar city of 290x290px
In the High Sun Games, the companions were pitted against five other adventuring groups and tasked with navigating a deadly labyrinth with a displacer beast, mimics, and gelatinous cubes, among other perils. They did not fare well at first the displacer had Edgin cornered between it and an illusory double, and he was only just rescued by Holga. They reached the center of the maze and safety, but Edgin realized there was still no escape from the maze or the contest. Fortunately, Doric proposed another, very risky way out—they had to leap into one of the gelatinous cubes as it descended, just as a displacer beast pounced, to get to their end goal the dungeons beneath the Neverwinter arena. Doric turned into a snake, slithered out, and freed her companions.
At the citys docks, Edgin and his friends seized the treasure ship from the guards and ambushed Forge Fitzwilliam as he was taking Kira with him out of the city. Edgin apologized to Kira and called her to him, which was when Forge showed his true colors and took her hostage, threatening the child with a knife. Fortunately, a well-thrown potato from Holga took care of him. Kira fled back into Edgins care and the team sailed away on the boat, having prevented the Lord of Neverwinter from fleeing his own city aboard a boat with the accumulated wealth of the city and the Games spectators. Father and daughter were finally able to reconnect. While the group at first sought to sail away and claim the riches for themselves, with Edgin at last taking the long-sought-after tablet of reawakening, the sight of Sofina invoking the horn of beckoning death over the arena quickly changed their minds. Edgin and the others devised a plan.
thumb|left|350px|You should know a wizard never fights alone.
Using a hot-air balloon with Forges likeness, along with the hither-thither staff, Edgin and his companions were able to redistribute the ex–Lord of Neverwinters ill-gotten riches to the citys people—keeping his vow to Xenk after all—leading them out of the arena and wasting Sofinas horrific spell. Enraged, Sofina assaulted them in a final battle in the city streets. The fighting was furious. Edgin and Holga battled an animated statue of a juvenile gold dragon and then were caught in an Otilukes resilient sphere, sending them rolling through the streets. Finally, all four companions fought the Red Wizard together. Sofina cast a time stop spell, presumably gaining the upper hand. In fact, this time Simon managed to counterspell the casting, before he and the others pretended they were stopped in time. Angry, Sofina confronted and threatened Edgin, before he abandoned the ruse and mocked her. Using her pendant of invisibility, Kira managed to negate Sofinas spellcasting abilities with a magic-suppression cuff from the games, and Doric wild shaped into an owlbear and put the defenseless Red Wizard down for good.
However, in the battle, Sofina struck Holga in the heart with her Red Wizard blade, just as Zia had been murdered years before. The barbarian died in Edgins and Kiras arms. As he and Kira grieved, a sapphire dragonfly alighted on Edgins arm and flew off, and he realized that his and Kiras relationship to Holga was now much more important than clinging to the memory of his lost wife. Thus, Edgin and Kira chose to use the tablets one charge to revive Holga instead and the reunited family had a tearful hug. As Zia had once told him, he had let her go.
With the negation of Sofinas magic, the former Lord of Neverwinter, Dagult Neverember awoke and resumed his reign. His first acts were to award the saviors of Neverwinter medals of heroism.
Edgin and his friends returned to Dorics village in the Neverwinter Wood to celebrate their victory. He resolved that they would be ready should Szass Tam seek revenge, and though he had an opportunity to return to the Harpers, he chose to stay with "his people"—Kira, Holga, Simon, and Doric.