Edwood was a runecaster in Volkumburgh Vale between the 12 and 14 centuries DR.
By the 14 century, Edwood had lived so long that he had succumbed to some form of madness and lost all sense of short term memory. He was also hostile to anyone intruding upon the ruins he called home.
No matter what threats he faced, he could not be coerced into revealing the location of the fragments that he and his allies had scattered long ago, only cryptic clues.
Edwood was capable of casting the following spells charm person, darkness, dispel magic, magic missile, phantasmal force, and monster summoning I.
If he was ever murdered, Edwood would arise as a wraith and summon a dozen skeletons to attack his killer.
Like the rest of his runecaster allies, Edwood was dressed in a set of padded armor and armed with a runestick made of yew-wood, as well as a runewand made from ebony. He also had a wyvern mount at his disposal.
In the 14 century DR, Edwood spent most of his time sitting and humming at his home in a catatonic state. Though if threatened he would focus all his attention on his aggressor and actively seek to kill them. Once his enemy was slain, Edwood would then return to his catatonic state.
During the mid-12 century DR, Edwood was a member of the College of Rune Magics. One day an injured member of the College of Shaping Magics, known as Valmous the Shaper, came to their college in flight from his rogue, rampaging creation. Thanks to Valmouss intimate knowledge of it, they were able to defeat the Awtawmatawn. Though the College of Rune Magics was left in ruin and only a few students survived.
Valmous, sensing an evil presence trapped within the fragments of the Awtawmatawn, tasked Edwood and his fellow rune adepts with scattering its pieces across the Volkumburgh Vale.
In 1358 DR, they became aware that someone had discovered one of Awtawmatawns fragments and was seeking to rebuild it.The Shattered Statue is a bit vague at times about how many rune adepts there are, likely to allow for DMs to create more, but page 29 specifies that there is "a total of four." While he remained at their home, his fellow runecasters rallied a dozen neanderthals and two of their wyverns to assault a group of adventurers.Page 13 of The Shattered Statue states that, "Only Edwood and the Adepts who survived the ambush in Chapter One will be here," and on page 7 that aforementioned ambush states that there can only be a "total of three [rune adepts]". Taken together, it can inferred that he was not present for that assault. A group who had been hired by the wizard Amelior Amanitas to search for the fragments of Awtawmatawn.
The adventurers ultimately won out, sending his allies fleeing back to their home, where they underwent a ritual of healing and tended to their wyverns. Later, Edwood and his fellow runecasters were lead by an arisen Valmous, alongside a host of forty neanderthals, to assault the village of Volkumburgh after Amelior had managed to reassemble the Awtawmatawn.