Effron Alegni, also known as "the Twisted", was a half-elf half-tiefling warlock under the tutelage of the Netherese lord Draygo Quick. He was the son of Herzgo Alegni and Alegnis rape victim, Dahlia Sinfelle.
Effron had a scratchy voice. He was short, young-looking, frail, and thin. He had one red eye and one blue eye, indicating his mixed elf/tiefling heritage. He had black hair with purple highlights and ramlike horns. His left arm was useless, damaged since right after his birth, and usually hung behind him. He had an infuriating grin. He also tilted his body back and forth quickly so that his limp arm swung out in a wave on purpose to upset his father, Herzgo Alegni, who found this macabre sight repulsive.
Effron possessed a powerful magical staff topped with a small, humanoid skull. The staff was made of bone and the eyes of the skull glowed red when in use. It had the power to create undead zombies from corpses.
Effrons birth was the product of Herzgo Alegnis rape of Dahlia Sinfelle when she was  a child. Some time after Effron was born, Dahlia took him to a cliff where she dropped him over the side in front of Alegnis eyes. She thought him dead, but Alegni took the child back to Netheril and the Shadowfell, where he was trained in the use of magic. He was trained under Argyle and Lord Draygo Quick since he was about ten years old. In "The Last Threshold" hes described as tapping into "the mystic energies of the Feywild"R.A. Salvatore (March 2014). Night of the Hunter. (Wizards of the Coast), p. 68. ISBN 0-7869-6511-8., making him a fey pact warlock.
In the year 1463 DR, Effron was sent by Draygo Quick to aid Herzgo Alegnis quest to control the rebuilt city of Neverwinter. He hired a number of mercenaries from Cavus Dun to hunt down Dahlia, whom he wished dead, and Drizzt DoUrden. The mercenaries failed, in part because of the secret betrayal of Ambergris.
After Drizzt, Dahlia, and Artemis Entreri retrieved Charons Claw from Alegni, Effron was tasked with aiding him. The mission failed and he witnessed the death of his father at the hands of his mother.
They were released from imprisonment many months later when Jarlaxle and Bregan Daerthe came to rescue them. Effron continued to travel with the group to Icewind Dale, where they spent a night on the edge of Iruladoon that lasted eighteen years in the outside world. After that night, Drizzt remained in Icewind Dale while Effron continued to travel with his mother and the rest of the group.
Effron was separated from his companions in Port Llast when they were captured by drow. Effron escaped, but his companions believed him to be dead. He remained in Port Llast until he came across Drizzt, now reunited with the reborn Companions of the Hall, who informed him that his mother had been killed (as far as they knew) by Catti-brie, Drizzts original wife. Effron, angry, declined to join them. After his departure, he ran into Beniago, who advised him to meet up with Ambergris and Afafrenfere across the Sea of Fallen Stars. He considered this a personal and spiritual journey.
Herzgo Alegni was Effrons father and in some ways his superior among the Netherese. Effron tried to impress him and make him proud however, Alegni claimed Effron had disappointed him ever since he first saw him and found his physical deformities either revolting or shameful. At the same time, Effron hated Alegni, although he found that he mourned his loss upon Alegnis death.
For much of his life, Effron was consumed by the desire to kill his mother, Dahlia Sinfelle, who had both abandoned him and caused his physical deformities. He even hired Cavus Dun mercenaries to have her killed. However, as he got to know her, he found himself drawn to her and eventually they formed a close relationship.