Sir Elliot of Kness was a crusading paladin and criminal investigator who worked in Waterdeep and the Underdark in the 14 century DR.
Elliot was a 63" tall man with a strong, muscular build. His face bore hard, chiselled features, and his typical expression was one of frowning concentration as he attempted to put together clues and solve criminal cases.
When on the case, he wore a long trenchcoat and broad hat, and displayed a badge bearing his familial coat of arms and affiliation with the Forthright Band of Investigators.
Elliot had a near-maniacal focus on bringing down gangsters and criminals, brought on by the murder of his partner Thurgood. His vengeful obsession led him to bend many of the laws and standards that he might otherwise respect, as they held him back from his ultimate goal of breaking up criminal organizations. He believed that the good that resulted from his actions far outweighed the cost incurred by his extreme methods.
As a paladin, Elliot could call on a number of divine powers. He could cure disease, create a circle of protection, lay on hands, and had immunity to disease. He was adept at a variety of practical skills, including building fires, riding, and herbalism, investigatory skills such as trailing and information gathering, and general religious studies.
Elliot always wore his +3 chainmail and a ring of clairaudience. His favorite weapon was Peacemaker, a +2 crossbow of speed.
Elliot served as part of the Forthright Band of Investigators in Waterdeep, working with Jayed Garhoovr and other paladins in the pursuit of justice. His closest companion was the fellow investigator Thurgood, whose death greatly affected Elliot.
Sir Elliot observing criminal lowlifes at the Think Easy.
Elliot was a marshall of Juris, and investigated various misdeeds alongside Thurgood. During one investigation they came across drow trading with surfacer criminals, and in the ensuing fight the majority of miscreants were captured, though Thurgood was killed. Sir Elliot devoted his life to tracking down and destroying the organizations that made up the drow "white market", eventually finding evidence of wide-reaching Underdark criminal organizations. Realizing the magnitude of his foes, he joined forces with Jayed Garhoovr and the Forthright Band of Investigators, a band of justice-minded paladins aided by the scholar Gerald of Riveyra.
A later target of his vengeance was House Catanzaro, a powerful drow noble house that influenced and financed a number of other Underdark criminal organizations. His targets included the Catanzaro matron Felyndiira Shinarrvha, the fence Gnormahlenvaey Catoneriehn, the entrepreneur Brikhalna Ipprszhen, and the assassins Vikhrumn Coll and Grayshivnarien Taliain.