| aliases        = Eladar the DarkMinstrelElMinsterTerminselElgorn
| nicknames      = StinkbeardCleverbrowsThe CraftyThe WiseThe Old Mage
The Sage of ShadowdaleDoombringer of MystraWeavemaster
| home           = Suzail, Cormyr
| formerhomes    = Shadowdale, DalelandsGaladornaHastarl, AthalantarHeldon, Athalantar
| sex            = Male Female
| race           = Human Drow (briefly)
| ethnicity      = 
| occupation     = Sage
| age            = 1280 (as of 1492 DR)
| patron deity   = Mystra
| languages      = 
| basicrefs      = 
| reckoning      = 
| dob            = 212
| dobnotes       = 
| turned         = 
| turnednotes    = 
| death          = 
| deathnotes     = 
| destroyed      = 
| destroyednotes = 
| daterefs       = 
| parents        = Elthryn Aumar (father)Amrythale Goldsheaf (mother)
| spouses        = 
| siblings       = 
| children       = Narnra Shalace, Filfaeril Obarskyr (allegedly), Laspeera Inthré (allegedly), Amarune Whitewave (great-great granddaughter), Simon Aumar (great-great grandson)
| familyrefs     = 
| dynasty        = 
| start of reign = 
| end of reign   = 
| predecessor    = 
| successor      = 
| successionrefs = 
| alignment1e    = Chaotic good
| class1e        = 
| refs1e         = 
| alignment2e    = Chaotic good
| class2e        = 
| refs2e         = 
| alignment3e    = Chaotic good
| challenge3e    = 39
| class3e        = 
| refs3e         = 
| alignment35    = 
| class35        = 
| refs35         = 
| alignment4e    = 
| class4e        = 
| refs4e         = 
| alignment5e    = 
| class5e        = 
| refs5e         = 
Elminster Aumar (), most often referred to as the "Sage of Shadowdale" or the "Old Mage", was one of the most famous and powerful wizards in all of Faerûn. He was also considered one of the Realms most preeminent sages—whose name was known from the Sword Coast, to the far-off jungles of Chult and the eastern Realm of Thay― Over the course of his centuries-long life Elminster had saved people of Faerûn from destruction or subjugation on numerous occasions,
Elminsters most notable feature was his hawk-like nose, which distinguished him since his youth, throughout the years he spent as a woman, and well into manhood. He had a shock of stark black hair in his youth, and maintained a beard through most of his years that eventually went gray in his old age. El had vibrant blue eyes set under big, bushy eyebrows that turned blue-gray later in life. 
In his later years, the elderly Elminster began to show his age, with his gruff voice and weathered features, but remained alert. He preferred to wear plain clothes, like simple black or gray robes. 
While Elminster was capable of taking on almost any appearance imaginable, he often preferred to travel in a less conspicuous manner, often utilizing invisibility and shapechange spells.
Depending on the circumstances, Elminster could be as equally serious, fearsome, or arrogant, while just as often demonstrating exceptional charm, cleverness, and good-natured humor. El was a natural raconteur and actor, and could take on the role of father figure, a wily trickster, an immoral rake, or any other clichéd role that served his needs at the time, or else on a whim to elicit a reaction from others. Most often Elminster chose to only reveal the full range of his character to his close friends and companions.
Elminster extolled the virtues of tolerance, peace, and freedom from oppression. He truly cherished the wonder and beauty of the natural world. While El grew up hating magic, especially those that wielded it for their own selfish ends, he garnered a profound appreciation for the Power and the Art during his studies. According to El, mages should further their studies to best understand how to avoid using the arcane power they had their disposal.
One of Els personality quirks was that he snored loudly while sleeping. He was considerate enough to magically mute himself during sleep if it would disturb his friends. As one of Mystras Chosen however, Elminster did not actually need to sleep.
Sarsauce fowl, a baked fowl dish, was one of Elminsters favorite foods found in the Realms, second only to fire-seared barbfin or smoked salmon.
thumb|right|250px|Elminster and his eversmoking pipe.
Before he devoted his life to the Mystran faith or began his wizardly studies, the young Elminster possessed the innate ability to heal himself and detect magical auras at will. El was exceptionally intelligent—a gift that was bolstered by multiple castings of the wish spell. He was also blessed with an eidetic memory, that allowed him to recall information from years past in quite an impressive manner. 
Elminsters memories may not entirely have been his own, however. It was speculated that some of his remembrances were implanted in his mind by Mystra, to best facilitate his transformation to the instrument of her will that the Realms truly needed. Regardless of the veracity of his memories, El considered his exceptional memory as something of a curse. He couldnt help but remember the death of every friend and loved one, along with every tragedy he could not prevent over the thousand-plus years of his life.
According to Lyra Sunrose, Elminsters singing voice was entirely tone-deaf, despite its rather "nice, smoky baritone" quality. El was also known to be a poor musician, incapable of writing down music himself, unskilled in arithmetic, He was, however, apparently quite skilled with a needle and thread.
Elminsters areas of expertise as a sage included a robust understanding of magic, familiarity with a wide range monsters, a deep knowledge of history, and comprehensive familiarity with familial genealogy.
Elminster was rumored to have learned much of his understanding of arcane magic from Arkhon the Old, a mage who died in Waterdeep some five centuries before the Era of Upheaval. By that time in history, El had gained knowledge of every spell that was commonly available to most adventuring spellcasters in the Realms. He did not use every spell he knew, however, preferring to avoid those from the conjuration school of magic, or any associated with creatures from the lower planes. 
El was considered one of the "modern masters" of counterspelling He also held mastery over magic that shaped the elements of the natural world. and The Srinshees spellshift. He was also one of three individuals confirmed to know spells capable of recharging spellstar gems.
While he was selective in his usage of psionics, El was proficient in a number of its disciplines. 
As one of Mystras chosen, Elminster was granted numerous spell-like abilities, including resistances and immunities to a myriad of spells.—pure raw energy taken directly from the Weave itself.
As was the case with at least one other of her chosen, El was designated as one of Mystras weave anchors, which were locations or individuals that tethered the Weave to the physical world.
Elminster was seldom one to travel without his staff, large pointed hat, or one of the numerous pipes in his collection. He had several notable pipes, including one made of meerschaum that usually puffed vile blue or green smoke, that could float independently and allowed others to take on his appearance.
The Old Mage owned a variety of powerful magic items, including an amulet of natural armor, bracers of armor, a mantle of spell resistance, and a thundering longsword. He was also the bearer of the Lion Sword, the sword-of-state for his native Athalantar.
For a time, Elminster was the bearer of Andrathaths mask, the eponymous facemask worn by his sadistic former instructor of the arcane arts.
Elminsters library housed a grand collection of books, the Keryfaertell, a tome treasured by the elves of old Cormanthor The Wizards Workbook, which originated from the same city and for a time, Unique Mageries, by Nezram "Worldwalker".
thumb|right|300px|The Old Mage of Shadowdale during one of his many visits to the House Greenwood of Earth.
Throughout his long life Elminster traveled across the Realms—along with other planets and extra-worldly planes of existence who always strived to preserve its long-term health and prosperity over any immediate threats that arose.
Following his "retirement", Elminster continued to gallivant across Toril, During that time of his life, El was less inclined to speak to visitors or other strangers that came by his "humble abode". 
In addition to his residence in Faerûn, Elminster maintained a hideaway within a floating metal sphere that orbited the central earthmote of the planet Coliar, along with extra-dimensional pocket plane referred to as Elminsters Safe Hold.
Elminster was credited with the invention of several unique spells, including inscribe, and worldwalk. 
Elminster penned a number of books in his time including Songs of the Wind The Holdings of Windsong Tower, Harping by Moonlight Approaches to Life, and a A Myth Drannan Amphigory. His personal journals led to the creation of several published works, including Travels Along the Sword Coast, and the Moonshae Chronicles, along with others written by Ed of the Greenwood and Jeff Grubb. He left a copy of A Guide to Magic by Elminster on another world, Adenthia, where it was a legendary artifact. He also claimed to be a playwright who authored at least one popular play titled The Librarian and the Beholder A Love Story.
At least one of Els spellbooks had been made available for aspiring adventurers to learn from, the one entitled Elminsters Traveling Spellbook.
El famously compiled a nine-book series titled Elminsters Ecologies, in which a number of contributors wrote about the plants, animals, creatures, people, and other natural phenomena theyd encountered throughout the Eastern Heartlands. His name was attached to a work titled Elminsters Black Book, found in Undermountain, that in fact housed a carnivorous palimpsest creature. The often-circulated chapbook, The Way of Lost Power, was also often erroneously attributed to him.
El crafted several powerful magical items over the years, including the first ever rod of spheres.
thumb|right|A king chess piece made in Elminsters image.
Elminster was so famous across the Realms that he had at least one drink named after him, a dark beer from Immersea known as Elminsters Choice. El himself was not a fan of the brew. He was even immortalized as both a wooden nesting doll and a chess piece, as offered by Auroras Whole Realms Catalogue.
Having once ventured within, an echo of Elminster remained within the Gravenhollow library in the Underdark. It was known to have appeared in the Archives of the Future.
While Els parentage and family were known to few, El was believed to have had many lovers over the course of his life, and sired at least one child, Narnra Shalace, the Silken Shadow of Marsember. He was also the great-great grandfather of Simon Aumar, a half-elf sorcerer and thief.It is unclear why Simon carries the Aumar family name, since Elminster himself rarely goes by it and has not married.
thumb|right|300px|Khelben Arunsun conferring with El during the Avatar Crisis.
Elminster counted upon many friends and allies throughout his life, from his fellow thief Farl to long-time ally and friend, fellow archmage, and often ideological rival, Khelben Arunsun. Rhauntides of Highmoon, Maris Khorma Terrabin of Cormyr, and Yandrin Thorl of Archendale, among many others. El was also considered a friend by nobles and royalty from all across Toril and the planes beyond, including Regent Alusair Obarskyr of Cormyr (even after her death), Count Gamalon Idogyr of Spellshire, and the Dragon Lord Mei Lung of the Kara-Turan pantheon known as the Celestial Empire.
thumb|250px|One of the many meetings of Elminster, Dalamar, and Mordenkainen.
The Old Mage held friendships and acquaintanceships with his peers from other worlds, most notably Ed of the Greenwood on Earth, to whom Elminster told much about Faerûn while enjoying refreshments (the Sage of Shadowdale was particularly fond of piña coladas). Elminster was also an aquaintance of Mordenkainen and Rautheene of Oerth and Dalamar of Krynn the three frequently met at Greenwoods home on Earth to exchange spells and news of each others worlds, though Elminster would never have dared admit it to other Torillians.
He was connected in purpose and creation with all of Mystras other Chosen, and maintained communication with them by means of a telepathic link. He held a particularly strong bond with Mystras own daughters, known throughout the Realms as the Seven Sisters. He helped raise three of them from childhood―Ambara, Anamanué, and Astorma, and the pair nurtured their bond as kindred spirits for centuries.
Elminster maintained strong bonds of friendship with other good-aligned and scholarly minded individuals. El was dutifully served by Lhaeo, his personal scribe he regularly edited works written by Volothamp Geddarm, author of the widely popular but seldom fact-checked "Volos Guide to..." series of travelogues and maintained an amiable yet friendly rivalry of sorts with Vangerdahast Aeiulvana, the Mage Royal of Cormyr.
He was an ally of numerous adventuring companies, The dragon named Gisentraxia was amongst Elminsters friends and allies in the late 15 century DR.>
Elminster continued to take on apprentices on occasion. Notable among these were Lycon "Wolf-beard", the mage and merchant Ghleanna Stormlake, who accompanied Elminster to Phlan when the citys pool of radiance became resurgent Taranel, a longtime scholar of the Draconomicon Raerlin, who attempted to steal from the Old Mage but was subsequently destroyed at a magefair and Nouméa Fairbright, who witnessed Elminster defend himself against two Red Wizards from Thay.
While El did not originally take on a young Vangerdahast as an apprentice, the Old Mage did share with him some arcane secrets, which remained secret between the two friends.
Not all of Elminsters apprenticeships ended well. By Mystras request El began tutoring Sammaster, one of the goddesss other Chosen who went on to found the Cult of the Dragon. The relationship between the two mages quickly became contentious. Sammaster left Elminsters tutelage after his obsession with Mystra and jealousy of her lovers overwhelmed the young mage.
Elminster eventually stopped taking on new students for a time. His decision stemmed from the fact so many young mages were corrupted by the ever-present drive to attain more powerful magic and to use that magic to wage war.
Elminster enjoyed many romances during his long and storied life, but his first and arguably most impassioned lover was the goddess Mystra herself. Nacacia, a half-elf from Cormanthor and the Srinshee, a unique lich-like being that watched over Myth Drannor. El and the Srinshee enjoyed a centuries-long friendship, 
The second great love of Elminsters life was Alassra Silverhand, the Witch-Queen of Aglarond and the second-youngest of the Seven Sisters. after they met and famously battled one another in a spell-duel some decades prior. The love they shared continued on for well over a hundred years, enduring the death of Alassras reincarnated mother, and the calamitous series of events that followed. El remained dedicated to Alassra during her darkest years, and did everything in his power for decades to keep her well when she was afflicted with supernatural madness.
Among Elminsters greatest foes were Othortyn and the malaugrym, terrible shapeshifting beings native to the Plane of Shadow.
Perhaps Elminsters most distinguished and menacing foe native to the Realms was the archmage Manshoon, founder of the nefarious Zhentarim. Their various encounters ranged from farcical, when Elminster embarrassed Manshoon in front of the lords of Zhentil Keep to deadly, when Manshoon killed Elminster at his weakest point
He was one of several prominent spellcasters targeted by the murderous members of House Karanok of Chessenta, who had placed a 10,000 gp bounty on his head. Elminster had even earned the enmity of the Red Wizard Velsharoon, before his apotheosis to demigodhood in 1368 DR.
thumb|left|200px|Young Elminster Aumar.
Elminster was born in the , to Amrythale Goldsheaf and Elthryn Aumar, lord of the village of Heldon and prince of Athalantar.Early sourcebooks like Hall of Heroes only state that Elminsters parentage is unknown and that he was born "somewhere" in the North. Information regarding his early years has been updated in novels and subsequent sources. When he was just a boy, Els parents were slain and his village was decimated by Undarl, one of Athalantars malevolent magelords. the young Elminster took his fathers broken blade, the Lion Sword that served as a symbol of the great king of the Stag Throne, and found a new life foraging for himself.
El was rescued by Helm Stoneblade and taken to live with the outcast Knights of Athalantar, who had meted out their own form of justice as brigands out of their hideout until the killing he was forced to enact in defense of his home took its toll. At only sixteen years old, Elminster had already grown weary of death and knew he needed to find a new livelihood.
thumb|right|200px|Elminsters first meeting with Mystra.
Leaving the life of banditry behind, El set himself up as a burglar in Hastarl, capital of Athalantar. He operated under the alias of Eladar the Dark and befriended a young thief named Farl. During one burglary, Elminster met the Magister of Mystra, Dorgon "Stonecloak" Heamilolothtar. Dorgon asked El if he desired to learn magic, but Elminster refused as he hated all mages because of the magelords.
thumb|left|200px|Elminster, casting spells during his time as Elmara.
While Elminster enjoyed his time spent as a thief in Hastarl, he rededicated his efforts to seeking revenge upon the magelords for the death of his family. When he ran afoul of the magelords temple in the city, El was overcome by hostile guardsmen and saved by Mystra herself. The Lady of Magic transformed him into a woman named Elmara to strengthen his bond with magic and to expand his understanding of the world. For a few years, "Elmara" served as a priestess of Mystra in Athalantar and beyond.
thumb|right|200px|El, bequeathing his kingdom to Helm Stoneblade.
Elminster and Myrjala set out together, rallying allies from among the elves of the High Forest, the exiled Knights of Athalantar, and the Velvet Hands of Hastarl. In the , Elminster and his friends stormed Athalantars capital city, defeated Undarl Dragonrider, the Mage Royal that slew Els family, and reclaimed the Stag Throne from his uncle Belaur.
But Elminster had no desire for kingship, and quickly abdicated in favor of his friend, Helm Stoneblade, honored knight of Athalantar. After a night of revelry and celebration, Elminster and Myrjala departed the kingdom. On their way out, however, Undarl revealed himself as one of the malaugrym from a different plane of existence and attacked them on the road out of the city. Myrjalas magic was ineffective against the otherworldly creature and she appeared to die from its spells.
The following year, Elminster traveled to the city of Cormanthor to continue his magical studies with the elves under Mystras direction. He walked east from Athalantar, across the Heartlands and through eastern border of Cormyr before arriving at the Forest of Cormanthor. While in the forest, he unsuccessfully tried to defend a dying elf from hobgoblins. With his dying breath, the elf bestowed upon El the kiira of House Alastrarra, along with the mission to return it to his family in Cormanthor.
thumb|left|200px|A depiction of a young Elminster, during his travels en route to Cormanthor.
When he arrived in Cormanthor, Elminster was astonished by the city of elves. He did however keep his promise and returned the kiira to its rightful owners. While many elves treated him with animosity and outright hatred, Elminster was brought before Coronal Eltargrim Irithyl and Mystra blessed their meeting with her presence. El was taken to the Vault of Ages to face a trial with the being known as the Srinshee. The two connected immediately, becoming fast friends and bonding over their shared outlook and appreciation for magic. With the Srinshees blessing, Elminster was openly welcomed as the first human granted permission to dwell in Cormanthor, named ShaQuessir (or elf-friend), and granted the title of Armathor of the Coronal Guard by Coronal Eltargrim.
However, those that opposed opening Cormanthor to non-elves tried to use Elminster as proof that humans and other undesirables were detrimental to elvenkind, Despite the allegations, El garnered some respect among the forward-thinking elves of the city, Eventually, Elminster was apprenticed to a cruel and powerful wizard from House Starym known only as "The Masked", and compelled to toil away for 20 years under oppressive conditions. 
Despite the poor working conditions, Elminsters made significant contributions to the formation of Cormanthors first mythal, which protected the city from outsiders. While some sought to subvert Els involvement in the High Magic ritual, and twist it to their own political aims, the raising of the mythal was a momentous occasion. The mythal was completed in the , and the newly renamed city of Myth Drannor was opened to non-elves for the first time in history.
Unfortunately El could not find true peace in Myth Drannor and attempts on his life continued. On Tarsakh 4 of that year, Lady Laurlaethee Shaurlanglar attempted to slay the Old Mage, first by lacing his moonwine with srindym poison, and when that failed, attempting to kill him with spells. She was ultimately unsuccessful and was subdued by a greater mage.
Elminster remained in Myth Drannor for nearly a century, when Lady Dathlue Mistwinter founded an order of idealistic elves, humans, and half-elves known as the Harpers at Twilight, which would aid the citys defense. 
Elminster finally left Myth Drannor at the behest of Mystra in the . He had spent about 90 of his 120-odd years living amongst the elves of Cormanthyr.
On Midsummer evening in the , the Srinshee visited Elminster one last time after claiming the Rulers Blade. She briefly interrupted his studies to bid him farewell before she departed for Arvandor.
Elminster returned to Myth Drannor and fought in the citys defense during the Weeping War. El joined the conflict about four months after the Army of Darkness first laid siege to Cormanthor in Nightal of the . He fought alongside the Nameless One and contributed to the elves victory in the conflict known as Dawn at Eroliths Knoll. Months later, he fought again in the legendary battle at Silversgate, which saw the Army of Darkness driven from the city. Elminster himself destroyed the gate that linked Myth Drannor to Silverymoon Pass, but was inadvertently sucked into other planes of existence and lost to his allies for some time.
After the tragic loss of the city, Elminster joined those in attendance of the Gathering of the Gods at the Dancing Place in the . This momentous occasion saw the clergies of many human deities of nature, along with those of the Seldarine, assemble together in unity against the agents of those whom they referred to as the Cruel Gods. It marked the re-founding of the Harpers organization. These adventurers would act in defense of the good people of the Realms, while holding no allegiance to one single deity.
Some thirty years later, in the , Elminster awoke within a dusty tomb when a band of adventurers found their way within. He was under the impression he had been trapped there in stasis for roughly a century. How he came to believe this was unknown, given recent events in the prior decades, though it was believed by some that his memory had been altered.While there is no specific reason given for the discrepancy in accounts of the timeline of Elminsters life, it is suggested in The Code of the Harpers that not all of his early memories may be his own.
It was around this time that Mystra decided to take a more personal hand in the creation of her Chosen. She chose Dornal Silverhand―the mortal man she deemed most worthy―and his paramour Elué Shundar as the vessels to birth seven daughters over the following years.
thumb|right|300px|El apprenticed to Lady Master Dasumia.
Shortly thereafter, the god Azuth came to Elminster, telling him that he mustnt rely on Mystra for aid like any of the other Chosen must do with magic. El was presented with another test from Mystra he would have to learn to survive without divine aid while using magic as little as possible. He was directed to serve under the tutelage of a wicked sorceress named Dasumia, who served the god Bane, and sought to tempt El away from Mystras path. El apprenticed himself to Dasumia, and was eventually named Court Mage of Galadorna under his new malevolent Master. As Dasumia tortured innocents and prepared a ritual for her dark god, El was compelled to take action. He refused to strike down her victims as directed and attacked Dasumia with what minimal magic he could cast. In the end, Dasumia revealed herself to be the goddess Mystra herself, once again testing El and his faith.
Around that time, magic had become unreliable and unexpected effects appeared whenever spells were cast. Some began to panic and speculated about whether Mystra still lived. Elminster was drawn to an ancient repository of magic created by the Netherese arcanist Karsus, where he freed the long-imprisoned Spellcaster Saeraede Lyonora. Saeraede enticed El with powerful magic that had been forbidden by Mystra, and attacked him, before being slain herself by an embittered foe from Els past.
After all he had gone through, Elminster felt dejected and lost. He reiterated his faith to Mystra and prayed to the goddess in earnest. El was given visions of all he could have had in life had he not devoted his life to his worship, saw everyone he had lost over the past 500-odd years, and even witnessed the arcane power he could have, had he chosen to take it for himself. In one of Els darkest moments, Mystra appeared before him and stated his most important task was just ahead the rearing of her daughters.
By the , Dornal and Elué had seven daughters, but tragically Elués mortal body could not handle Mystras divine possession. When Dornal learned that Elué was in-effect possessed by a supernatural entity, he tried to murder her and then abandoned his daughters.
Decades later, in the , Elminster first met with Sammaster, a fellow Chosen of Mystra. El took on the young mage as an apprentice for a time, instructing him on how to wield his newfound powers, including the highly coveted silver fire. But over time Sammaster developed an unhealthy obsession with Endué Alustriel, Mystras second eldest daughter, and lost command over his silver fire. In the , Sammaster and his apprentice Algashon Nathaire abducted Alustriel and prepared a horrific ritual that would steal her access to the fire and restore his own. Elminster and Alustirels sister Laeral rescued their fellow Chosen and were forced to slay Sammaster, leaving his remains to Mystras consort Azuth.
On Hammer 14 in the , Elminster confronted Halueve Starym for attempting to control devils. During the ensuing battle, the Srinshee advised Elminster through his silver fire on how to defeat the elven mage.
In the early 11 century DR, Elminster and Khelben Arunsun spent much of their time searching for suitable adventurers to take up the mantle of the Harpers of some centuries past. In the , they found the champions they sought in the form of the newly chartered company known as the Wanderers of Espar. After the group firmly established themselvs as a force of goodness in the North, Elminster ceased his meddling with the group, at least for a time.
By the 12 century DR, Elminster had become well versed in traveling the various planes of existence. While visiting the Plane of Shadow, El inadvertently attracted the attention of a malaugrym 
Despite warning them never to return, this conflict gave way to the Harpstar Wars, which began in earnest in the . During the conflict, El crafted the eponymous Harp of Stars a magical device that helped his allies learn more about the aberrant monstrosities from the shadow plane. The Harpers fought the malaugrym across numerous extra-planar locales, and both sides of the conflict suffered tremendous losses. It was only when Els comrade Khelben Arunsun took over the consciousness of the malaugrym Shadowmaster, in the , that the war came to an end. After some 40 years of fighting, only a handful of malaugrym remained in their own demiplane, along with a score of Harpers that returned to Toril to help protect the Realms.
While Elminster and his allies were away from Faerûn, a mediocre bard named Rundorl Moonsklan had taken control of the group and named himself the Harper King. which itself was founded by Els former pupil Sammaster. Thavverdasz battled the Red Wizard Szass Tam and appeared to claim victory as master of the undead. Elminster appeared out of the skull of a slain Harper and destroyed the lich and saved the remaining Harpers, just having returned to Toril with his comrades.According to page 125 of The Grand History of the Realms, Elminster defeated Szass Tam, not Thavverdasz.
Despite their "victories", the Harpers as an organization was left nearly in ruin. Elminster transported his injured friend Khelben and the other survivors to Elventree to recover, and set out to rebuild all that had been lost in the previous decades.  
Some twenty years later, on Eleint 21 in the , Elminster sought council with the wise warrior Thauntar and his dear friend the Srinshee about a spellcaster known as the Simbul that was killing many mages in the eastern realm of Aglarond. Elminster traveled to Aglarond and challenged the Simbul to a spell-duel. The titanic battle that eventually erupted between the two caused much damage to the Witch-Queens palace before they both agreed to move the battle to Crommors Fang. Their battle continued at the new locale until Elminster realized the Simbul was also one of Mystras Chosen.
In the years that followed, Elminster forged a bond of friendship and comradery with the Simbul, who was in fact Alassra Shentrantra, the sixth daughter of Dornal Silverhand and Mystra. He called upon both Alassra and the Wychlaran of Rashemen to help defend the recovering Harpers from their Red Wizard enemies in Thay. Fortunately for El and the Harpers, the Simbul hated the Red Wizards and would gladly keep them and their armies on the defensive.
As the dark mage Manshoon and his cabal of wizards known as the Zhentarim emerged as a threat to the Heartlands, Elminster personally took it upon himself to keep them at bay.
thumb|center|800px|Elminster facing off against the forces of darkness once again.
Elminster did take some time for himself during these years. He managed to make a visit to the Moonshae Isles in the , and took extensive notes about all he encountered.
El unofficially retired to Shadowdale about 15 years later, in the , serving as the de facto leader of Shadowdale, alongside Lord Mourngrym Amcathra.
Despite his efforts to remain hidden, Elminster continued to help new adventuring groups and aid his friends and allies. He played a key part in establishing the Rangers Three. The following year, Elminster helped the young Shandril Shessair understand her newly found powers over spellfire, and worked to keep her safe from her enemies in the Zhentarim and the Cult of the Dragon.
thumb|right|250px|Elminsters sigil.
In the , just before the Time of Troubles, Mystra gained, by some means, foreknowledge about the upcoming calamity (Elminster later theorized this knowledge was offered to her by the overdeity Ao). She invested a great deal of her power into the lesser deity Azuth and all of her Chosen, with Elminster himself receiving the greatest amount. Mystra crafted a magical pendant and bestowed it upon the adventurer Midnight, At the moment Mystra ceased to be the Goddess of Magic, magic did not function as normal, and Elminster lost access to the Weave. He felt weak and lost, a shadow of the man he was just a day earlier.
After suffering such a great loss, Elminsters friends and fellow Chosen were greatly worried about him. The adventurer Sharantyr and two Harpers Belkram and Itharr, known together as the Rangers Three, watched after El, and together they overthrew a Zhentilar-controlled outpost in High Dale. During the conflict, the archlich Saharel sacrificed herself to slay the mortal Manshoon and save Elminsters life.
Despite their small victory, two great threats to the Heartlands emerged the extra-planar malaugrym that saw this crisis as an opportunity to exact revenge by slaying Elminster, and the god Bane, who had taken mortal form in Zhentil Keep, and sought to take for himself the Tablets of Fate. In the middle of Kythorn, El and his fellow Chosen devised a plan to protect the Old Mage and keep the Realms safe. The ghost of Syluné used Els pipe to act as a decoy Elminster, attracting the attention of the malaugrym while the Rangers Three assisted the real Elminster in preserving Mystra and repairing what remained of the fractured Weave.
On the same day as the avatar of Mystra was destroyed by the avatar of Bane, Over the following tendays, El and Mystras other Chosen, along with the Rangers Three and the Knights of Myth Drannor, held off the malaugrym invasion of the Realms for a time. They ventured into the Plane of Shadow, killed many of the malevolent shapeshifters in their Castle of Shadows, and destroyed the malaugrym spell loop, albeit at great cost.
Having returned to the Prime Material plane, Elminster finally met with the adventurer Midnight on Flamerule 8, along with her companions Adon, Cyric, and Kelemvor, at his tower in Shadowdale. He offered them aid in their fight against Banes forces 
All the while, Elminster worked old necromancy spells to restore the bodies of the allies that accompanied him to the Castle of Shadows to their natural state. Within a tenday, El was reunited with them in Faerûn on the 15 of the following month.
thumb|right|350px|El, Midnight, and Banes avatar in a spellbattle.
El accompanied Midnight and her companions to Morningdawn Hall, just as the Zhentilar army marched upon Shadowdale Town, and helped Midnight perform a ritual that would located the Tablets before Bane and the Zhentarim. As the two performed the ritual, Banes avatar forced his away into the temple. As the Celestial Staircase opened up above, Elminster created a rift that conjured Mystras pure essence in the form of a magic elemental. The entity imbued Banes avatar with all of its power, all but destroying his mortal form.
While Midnight and her friend Adon were tried for Elminsters "murder", they were sprung from imprisonment by their companion Cyric. Els scribe Lhaeo helped them to seek passage to the city of Tantras, where Elminster had believed they could find one of the Tablets of Fate. By the time Midnight arrived in the city, El had returned to the Realms, using the alias of Minstrel. He told Midnight she could find the tablet within the local temple of Torm,
Elminster remained in touch with Midnight, Adon, and Kelemvor as they traveled west towards Waterdeep in search of the second Tablet of Fate, and reunited with them at Blackstaff Tower upon their arrival. El and Khelben offered some insight to the adventurers about how best to proceed in acquiring the tablet from the realm of Hades, beneath Dragonspear Castle. 
Once Midnight and the others succeeded in their mission, Waterdeep was overrun with Myrkuls legion of undead minions led by the night riders. Elminster helped defend the City of Splendors, and helped heroes hide away the Tablets of Fate within an extra-dimensional space in Blackstaff Tower, until they could fight off and destroy the avatar of Myrkul himself. El rained down meteors upon the rest of the dead gods horde, so that Midnight, Kelemvor, and Adon could take the tablets to Mount Waterdeep. While the allies former companion Cyric managed to steal both tablets and present them to Ao at the mountain himself, Midnight was recognized as the hero that had wrested them from the avatars of the gods and was given the opportunity to ascend as the new Mystra, goddess of magic.
In the month of Mirtul in the , Tarth Hornwood appeared before Elminsters tower seeking to be trained by the sage of Shadowdale in exchange for the Lost Ring of Murbrand. Elminster refused the offer but instead asked that Tarth destroy the staff of his former master, Nerndel of Amphail. Tarth attempted to trick the Old Mage with a fake staff built by Sarlin the Serpent, but was unsuccessful. After performing the ritual to destroy the staff, the item transform into Nimra Ninehands who had been trapped in the staff for over 700 years. Elminster explained that Nimra would help train Tarth as she was still bound to Nerndals service—and now his.
In the early 1360s DR, the Roadwarden of Skull Crag, Arelin Starbrow, was killed in a treacherous monster ambush. When a group of adventurers involved in defending the Skull Crag Keep arrived at the site of the battle, Elminster greeted them, his pipe pumping smoke. The old wizard remained unrecognized and offered the group advice in their quest and reiterated the importance of keeping the Keep safe. Elminster pointed out distinctly different monster tracks that led away from the ambush in different directions and hinted at the true perpetrator disappearing into thin air from the science. The mage departed after giving the adventurers a stone of good luck.
Elminster assisted Royal Magician Vangerdahast in searching for the missing War Wizard Bolifar Geldert in Alturiak of the . Together they uncovered a plot by Baerune Cordallar, Kaulgetharr Drell, and others to wed Alusair Obarskyr and kill Tanalasta Obarskyr.
In late Eleint of the , the new incarnation of Mystra stripped away many of Elminsters memories of her former incarnations secrets.
In the same month, Elminster Aumar paid a visit to the famous Wizards Guild of Ravens Bluff. The Old Mage offered suggestions on improving the guilds architectural enhancements and ensorcelled amenities and, later, participated in a roundtable meeting with ranking Ravenaar wizards, as well as Chancellor Simon Regulus. The mages discussed the looming extraplanar threat to the Bluff. The same day, Elminster personally sponsored several new members joining the guild – Glithander Ej-lahona, Rafim Cinder, and Arroc. All of them were rumored to have elven blood and coming from Elminsters home – the Dalelands. Elminster took part in many more closed-door meetings that lasted into the morning, joined by some mysterious figures. The Old Mages visit was accompanied by a host of Harpers that stayed in Ravens Bluff along with Elmisnter. The Sage of Shadowale also found time to give an interview to Ravens Bluff Trumpeters Nadd Parker, a freelance reporter, with whom he discussed upcoming wizardly meetings but was secretive on the details.
Later in the year, on Nightal 25, Elminster was called to Blackstaff Tower to discuss the phaerimm attack on Evereska with Laeral Silverhand, Khelben Arunsun, High Elder Gervas Imesfor, and High Priestess Angharad Odaeyns. 
On Nightal 28, Elminster met with the Lady-of-the-Wood Morgwais in time for the arrival of Galaeron Nihmedu, Melegaunt Tanthul, Vala Thorsdotter, and the stone giant Aris. Elminster confronted Melegaunt on his motives but didnt press the issue too far in the presence of Morgwais. 
Elminster fought a running battle against phaerimm, beholders, and even the lich Wulgreth through the wild magic area of the Dire Wood. Despite this, on Nightal 30, he eventually stumbled across the Princes of Shade and overheard them planning an attack on Shadowdale while he was trapped in the form of a tree. Exhausted from his long battles and depleted of many spells, Elminster returned to Shadowdale via the Anauroch desert and arrived to find the dales inhabitants and Storm Silverhand embattled already by phaerimm rather than the expected shadovar. When Elminster approached his tower, Rivalen Tanthul and five other Princes of Shade ambushed Elminster. In the confrontation, spells were thrown, and Storm Silverhand blasted one of the shadow princes with a ball of silver fire. Since Shadovar were living shadow magic and silver fire was pure Weave energy, the collision between the two tore at the fabric of reality and created a rift to the Nine Hells. Elminster realized that the only way to close the portal before legions of devils spilled forth into Toril was to enter within and close it from the other side.
thumb|right|350px|Elminster Aumar battles fiends in the Nine Hells.
In the early hours of Hammer 1, in the , Elminster entered the portal and narrowly managed to close it, but at the expense of much of his magical strength. who wished to discover the secret of Mystras silver fire. Elminster was subject to brutal tortures, surviving only because of his exceptional endurance and ability to heal himself with silver fire.
While the arch-fiend plundered Elminsters thoughts and memories, Mystra became aware of her favorite servants plight and entered Hell herself to find him. Realizing that her presence in Hell was overly conspicuous, Mystra retreated and dispatched more subtle agents to find him, first Halaster Blackcloak the Mad Mage of Undermountain (who was defeated), and then the Simbul. After much searching, the Simbul found him, and together they defeated Nergal and returned home.
In the , three years after the Manshoon Wars began, Elminster later secretly helped a small group of adventurers near Westgate at the village of Reddansyr. Investigating the fate of a clone of Manshoon, they unmasked the clone as the real leader of the Night Masks of Westgate, the Night King known as "The Faceless".
On the Feast of the Moon in the , El, Khelben, and Laeral worked powerful high magic to cleanse the stretch of the High Moor around Highstar Lake, and return to glory the lost city of Faertelmiir. It was then renamed Rhymanthiin, the Lost City of Hope. The fantastic feat came at a great loss however, as Khelben Arunsun sacrificed his life to ensure its completion.
Just over a tenday later, on Nightal 15, Sharran agents attempted to steal the Ebon Diadem from Elminsters tower. Due to the essence of the artifact and the sheer power of Elminsters wards, on whose power the artifact fed, the Sharrans defeated Elminster (though not without losing most of their number) and a contingency spell whisked Elminster away, while his tower itself was blasted into ruin and transported to another, unknown plane of existence.
thumb|right|300px|Elminster, wielding powerful magics.
A decade later, in the , Mystra was slain in Dweomerheart by the god Cyric working alongside the goddess Shar. The magical Weave that permeated Realmspace collapsed, and the Spellplague wracked all of Toril. El and the rest of Mystras Chosen were stripped of their powers. While El himself could still cast arcane magic, every use of his magic drove him to—and sometimes over—the brink of insanity. When this happened, only his longtime traveling companion Storm was able to bring his mind back, giving of her own essence to soothe Elminsters mind.
Elminsters great love and fellow Chosen, Alassra Silverhand, was left in a much worse state following the Spellplague. She absorbed the magical energies released during the cataclysmic event and was afflicted with never-ending madness. On one occasion she unwittingly attacked Elminster at Silverhand farm, and he was forced to defend himself in a devastating spell battle.While an adventure in Dungeon #181 states that the Simbul died, she appears alive but not well in subsequent novels. The powers she held within were released and absorbed by El, and he became a threat to all the Dales. He absorbed the power from the surrounding landscape, creating pockets of plaguelands and conjuring earthmotes. The Old Mage was eventually subdued by a band of adventurers, and left to languish at the old farm.
Despite that ordeal, Elminster made it his calling to amass magical or otherwise enchanted items from wherever they were found, and channel their dweomers to Alassra to alleviate her worst symptoms and grant her brief moments of lucidity. She would remain well for a time, before she flew off to some faraway realm, only to return to one of her favored locales. El dedicated his life then on to caring for her, while rumors spread that the reverse was true.
Despite these setbacks, Elminster and Storm continued with their campaign to save Faerûn, battling evil where they could. the pair watched over Shadowdale, and even guided aspiring adventurers, like Kahara Sulwood when drow from House Jaelre overran the dale. On one occasion, El heard the voice of Mystra direct him to travel to Zhentil Keep, and destroy the Darkways that Manshoon had corrupted, leading to the death of many noted mages.
Eventually El and Storm took the aliases of "Elgorn" and "Stornara Rhauligan", two servants working for the Cormyrean royal family, and relocated to Suzail.
After living in such a weakened state for nearly a century, Elminster finally admitted in the , that he and Storm needed help saving the Realms. Having run out of easy-to-steal magic items to feed to Alassra, Elminster sought to gain access to artifacts known to contain the spirits of the Nine—objects powerful enough to pierce the wards surrounding the Royal Palace or, Elminster believed, to permanently restore the Simbuls sanity.
| float  = 
| width  = 
| styles = 
During one of his excursions into the Royal Palace that same year, 
With Amarunes consent and the aid of Storm, Elminsters essence was placed in the body of his great-grandaughter by means of a spell the ex-Chosen had discovered in a cache once belonging to Azuth. He then sought to train his great-granddaughter while attempting to defend the Forest Kingdom from Manshoon and traitorous nobles alike. He shared Runes body with her for a time, but soon discovered how to also cohabit the body of her paramore, Lord Arclath Delcastle, along with his consciousness.
As El learned to navigate his new bodiless existence, Storm discovered a means of permanently curing Alassra of her madness by helping her consume one of the powerful blueflame items seemingly created during the Spellplague. Meanwhile, the Manshoon of Westgate was enacting a convoluted scheme to manipulate the nobility of Cormyr and install himself as Emperor of Cormyr.
The situation came to a head as El, Storm, and the others struggled to offer the blueflame item to Alassra within a secluded cave, and Manshoon appeared before them all. Alassra returned to her full self, restored Elminsters physical form, and presented everyone with a missive from her long-dead mother El and Manshoon would have to work together against the machinations of the Imprisoner and close the many inter-planar rifts that had been opened by warlocks and others during the last hundred years. If they failed, the primordials would take over Toril, and the world of elves, men, and dwarves would be no more. Elminster and Manshoon both agreed to work alongside the other... for a time.
thumb|left|350px|Els essence taking form in the Underdark, after Manshoons sudden but inevitable betrayal.
Manshoons loyalty to the others lasted all but a few minutes. Just after Alassra left to begin their work, Manshoon used his magic to once again cast Elminster from his body and plunge his essence into the Underdark. before encountering the consciousness of Symrustar Auglamyr, an elf that had lived in Cormanthor when El first stepped into the city. They traveled together as El came to inhabit the body of a drow woman and eventually made his way back up to the surface world.
El had managed to make his way back to Cormyr, reunited with Amarune, and heralded Mystras return to the Realms. He entered into the mind of an honest and stalwart member of the War Wizards and informed them their aid would be needed during the conflict ahead.
Meanwhile, Alassra worked tirelessly to close rifts that had been opened across the Realms. She wielded her silver fire to slay many demons, but was nearly overwhelmed and called out to Elminster and Mystra for help. While Alassra emerged victorious, El heard her pleas but could not be heard in response. As she continued with her quest, consuming blueflame items became increasingly taxing on her body.
When Elminster witnessed so much needless death and destruction caused by Manshoons schemes that he went into a murderous rage and unleashed all the remaining magic he had upon his old foe. It was not enough however, and Els newest body was blasted apart by the citys War Wizards. Alassra arrived moments later and sacrificed herself to restore Els rightful body and make himself whole again. Absolutely distraught with the loss of his lifelong love, Elminster went on to systematically slay everyone responsible for the events leading up to that point. He saved Manshoon for last, melting his body with silver fire, despite knowing the centuries-old despot could not be truly destroyed save for by divine intervention.
El resisted the urge to allow his rage to overtake him. He returned to the cave where Alassra was cured, carrying with him the power of the blueflame items she had amassed. El returned the arcane power to Mystra, allowing her to fully return as the Goddess of Magic once again.
After suffering such tremendous loss, Elminster went to Neverwinter for its Protectors Jubilee to see the citys renewal for himself. A guest of honor at the Protectors Enclave, Elminster bade adventurers who sought him out to escort merchants through the hostile territory of Blacklake District, Ebon Downs, and Whispering Caverns had them meet with and bring a coded message left by an undercover spy with the Blacklake gangs had them capture a coded message from the Dead Rats for the Harpers to decrypt and directed them to covertly transcribe certain notes from Principles of Thaumaturgic Transmogrification at Braddas Sage Shop, among others.>
When the restored Cult of the Dragon emerged as a threat to the Sword Coast in the 1480s DR, Elminster joined the armies of the Five Factions at the Well of Dragons, and helped prevent Severin Silrajin from summoning Tiamat to the Realms.
thumb|right|350px|Elminster during the era of the Second Sundering.
Over the next few years, Elminster and Storm Silverhand, along with Amarune and Arclath, traveled across the Realms working to strengthen the Weave at locales where some magical wards managed to survive the Spellplague. After adventuring in a dungeon near Elturel in the Western Heartlands in the , they learned that the Shadovar of Thultanthar had begun investigating similar points of interest across Faerûn. To stop Shars agents from carrying out their goddesss plot to takeover the Weave as part of the Shadow Weave, El ventured to Candlekeep to learn more about the situation. Storm, Amarune, and Arclath meanwhile traveled to the reborn city of Myth Drannor.
While in Candlekeep, El discovered that both Shadovar agents and two of his fellow Chosen—Alustriel and Laeral—had spent years, decades even, within the library-fortress, preparing for events that were about to unfold. Els old friend Khelben had previously gleaned insight into the series of world-changing events known as the Second Sundering and had developed a contingency plan. Khelbens fellow Moonstars, along with Alustriel and Laeral, intended to destroy the wards of Candlekeep in order to prevent Shar and the Shadovar from utilizing them. While El remained aghast at the idea, the lich Larloch appeared before the trio and offered an alternative. Unlike Mystras living Chosen, Larloch had expertly retained his power following the Spellplague,
As agents of the Moonstars broke into Candlekeep to excise the Shadovar within, Elminster linked minds with the leaders of the Avowed to gain access to the librarys wards. Unfortunately, Larloch betrayed El and the others and used the mind-link to slay many of Candlekeeps monks. The Shadow King was then able to strip away Canlekeeps powerful wards for his own use. Elminster learned his lesson. He and his fellow Chosen quickly made their way to Myth Drannor, to ensure  Larloch could not also steal the power from the citys restored mythal.
They arrived too late, however, as Larloch invaded the minds of Thultanthars citizens and began the ritual to consume the mythal. El meanwhile used the technique Larloch taught him―bolstered by the support of Laeral and Alustriel―and gained control of the flying city itself. Given extra power by the Srinshee after she sacrificed what remained of her unlife, Elminster brought Thultanthar crashing down atop Myth Drannor in a cataclysmic blast that destroyed both cities. Fortunately, most residents of Myth Drannor had been evacuated before. The goddess Shar declined to further escalate her plot and admitted failure to her rival Mystra.
thumb|right|300px|A stylized depiction of Elminsters classic appearance, as depicted on an Ace tarot card.
The following year, El hosted an event at Oldspires in Cormyr, home of the noble-born merchant Sardasper Halaunt. Several powerful archmages were summoned to the old manor, which was then caught in the middle of a powerful spellstorm, on the promise they could possibly attain powerful magic the Lost Spell. Mystra wished that the mages would come together in the spirit of camaraderie to help guide the Realms following the dual tragedies of the Spellplague and Second Sundering.
Unfortunately, the gathering led to a series of grisly murders, as several of the mages slew each other in order to take the Lost Spell for themselves. In the end, Elminster destroyed the scroll of the Lost Spell and eradicated the spellstorm surrounding the manor. At Mystras request, he finally enacted justice on Manshoon for his atrocities. El removed the spindle of Mystryls divine essence from within the clone of the ancient wizard, but left him alive to languish without his power. 
Later on, in the , Elminster and former Lord of Waterdeep Mirt―who had been restored to life after his consciousness remained within a blueflame weapon for over a century―returned to the city of Waterdeep. Together they aided the citys recently appointed Open Lord Laeral Silverhand identify the culprits responsible for murdering numerous Masked Lords.
The following year, Elminster involved himself in the emergent Absolute crisis that threatened all of Baldurs Gate and the Sword Coast. He sought after Gale Dekarios, a fellow wizard and lover of Mystra, who bore a Netherese destruction orb within his chest.
thumb|350px|left|Elminster finally confronting Sammaster in spell-battle on the far-off world of Adenthia.
At some point, Mystra sent Elminster to the world of Adenthia to investigate dracoliches terrorizing its lands Elminster suspected the Adenthian form of magical called chaos power was infecting her own magic. After destroying a few and learning they were connected to the local Penultima cult, he enlisted the aid of a local adventurer, the halfling mechanic Gerana, and her companions. At a local tavern, they ran into a Penultima cultist who boasted of the dracoliches power and directed them to their next attack. There, they discovered weakened, imitation dracoliches raised using chaos power from ancient dragon bones, but prone to madness, rage, and spontaneous disintegration. Fortunately, Gerana resonated with the chaos power in the bones and led Elminster to a wizards tower guarded by a Penultima cultist. Inside, they found a copy of the Tome of the Dragon, a long way from Toril, before cultists summoned them to meet their new leader none other than Elminsters old foe Sammaster. In the cult fortress, Sammaster revealed that hed resurrected himself on Adenthia, where he was venerated by Penultima as Adenthias long-lost Child of Chaos and sought to take over that world with dracoliches as he had attempted on Toril. In the end, they fought and Elminster and Gerana destroyed Sammaster again in a lengthy battle, saving the world and bringing peace, etc. Afterward, Elminster declined the offer of a massage and they returned to the tavern to celebrate, where Elminster named a local wine "Elminsters Choice" before he departed, presumably returning to his own world.
According to the Auroras Whole Realms Catalogue, Elminster owed his longevity in part to a hidden cache of elven bread imported from Evermeet. Others ascribed his many years to "more mundane" means, like drinking from potions of longevity, vitality, or the elixir of life.
Some believed Elminster had a hand in the founding of the city of Waterdeep, or just with setting up its system of lords.