Lord Elorfindar Floshin was a sun elf who spent most of his life guarding the portals of the Ardeep Forest. He lived in a grand estate close to the House of Long Silences, not far from the settlement of Daggerford.
Though he rarely had reason to enter battle, Elorfindar owned many magic items. He owned a suit of elven chain mail +4, a shield +2, a ring of protection +2 as well as a ring of wizardry, a massive collection of ioun stones, and a luckstone.
Elorfindar additionally owned several magical weapons, including a longbow +3, along with several magical arrows, a dancing longsword, and even a staff of the magi. One of his most prized possessions was his sentient longsword which was called Elfhost.
Throughout his tenure as protector of the portal nexus of the Ardeep, Elorfindar established a network of wards and spells that offered him advanced notice of anyone attempting to intrude upon his woods.
Elorfindar remained with his elven wife for over six hundred years, until her death some time before the late–12 century DR. Shalendra, and Elorshin.
In the two centuries after her death, Elorfindar married three different human women from among the Waterdhavian nobility, and has had a number of half-elven children with them.
He was the great-grandfather of Kiratha. 
He was a distant relative of Araevin Teshurr.
In his youth, Elorfindar experienced the formation of Phalorm, the Realm of Three Crowns, the great 6 century kingdom of the west that united elves, dwarves, and humans. His fellow elves of the Ardeep remained untied with the dwarves of Dardath and the men of Delimbiyran for over a century. After the armies of the kingdom were destroyed by the lich known as Iniarv, the elves of the Ardeep abandoned considered their trial of a racially diverse kingdom to be ill-advised.
Elorfindar did not leave his home and held on to the hope of a united realm  that comprised elves, dwarves, and men. He led the efforts for hundreds of years to create a new Phalorm, but ultimately failed as the human kingdom of Delimbiyran broke apart and the nearby dwarfholds were abandoned.
Elorfindar genuinely believed it was his duty to guard the portal nexus in the House of Long Silences within the Ardeep Forest as penance for the betrayals of his ancestors. The actions of his forebears led to the formation of one of the groups of fiendish Feyri.
In an effort to still aid the humans of the region, Elorfindar spent his many years dedicating himself to the remaining human settlement in the region, the small town of Daggerford. For over 400 years he served as advisor and friend to the numerous noble dukes that led the town,
During his later years, in the 14 century DR, Elorfindar rarely left Floshin Estates.
Circa the , Elorfindar died and the estate was left to his eldest son Darfin. His final actions involved the study of the forsaken House of Long Silences, believing he had one last attempt to restore the glory he had experienced in his youth.