Eltargrim Irithyl was sixth Coronal of Cormanthyr, seventh son of Coronal Tannivh Irithyl, ruling from  to his death in 661 DR. He was of the unpopular opinion that the outside races (such as humans, gnomes, halflings and dwarves) could not be held back by the elves due to their sheer numbers, so he allowed them entry to the forest of Cormanthor and to inhabit the city of Cormanthor, renaming it Myth Drannor in 261 DR.
Eltargrim was a gold elf, with golden eyes and long silvery white hair. He possessed a warriors build until his death, though he was often seen in robes of state rather than armour after becoming Coronal. He wore his tattoos of military rank until his death a black sword on one hand and two crossed rings on the other.
Eltargrim was born in  in the community of Semberholme. In his early years he joined the AkhVelahr, the standing army of Cormanthyr, remaining there for over three centuries and attaining the rank of penaal.
Eltargrim rose to Coronal in 
The Coronal began noticing the ever-encroaching humans on all of his borders. Cormyr, once an elven territory, was now a human kingdom. The Stonelands had fallen to goblinkind because the AkhVelahr would not ally with Cormyrs Purple Dragons. Lastly, the men of the Dalelands were settling the lands on all sides of Cormanthyr, and showed no sign of departing soon. Eltargrim made the first of many controversial decisions he signed the Dales Compact and made an allegiance with the humans, raising the Standing Stone with Elven High Magic, marking the beginning of the Dale Reckoning. While this led to considerable peace for over two centuries, the Coronal was not satisfied.
Eltargrim pondered Oacenths vow to "unify the tribes of this great land" and how a four-thousand year old vow might apply to modern times. After much deliberation, the Coronal concluded that it must in fact include the NTelQuess (non-elves) in the unification. Despite increasing opposition from more conservative noble houses in Cormanthor, Eltargrim decided to open the forest realm to human wizards and druids as well as nonhuman but nonelven settlers in the year 220 DR. The unification grew to a peak in 261 DR, when despite attempts on his life and rebellion in his court, Eltargrim raised the mythal of Cormanthor, renaming it Myth Drannor, and commencing the Opening, inviting all races to live under the citys towers in peace and unity.
Eltargrim died in 661 DR. Having seen his dreams of unification and peace under the towers of Myth Drannor come to a head, he felt rested and complete, and decided to pass on to Arvandor willfully. During the Midsummer celebrations, he woke in the morning to greet the dawn dressed in his ceremonial armour. He took up a song and raised his Elfblade to the sun as its rays touched his face, and with a smile climbed into the heavens and ascended from life. He left the magical sword afloat to be claimed by his chosen heir Aravae Irithyl, his grand-niece (though she never did so). Eltargrim was the last Coronal to rule over Cormanthyr for centuries. Eltargrims death marked the death knell to the empire, initiating a period called the Dusk. Cormanthyr collapsed very soon afterwards.