Emirikol the Chaotic was an infamous human sorcerer and wizard that had traveled across many worlds in the multiverse.
Emirikol dressed in simple, yet elegant clothes and sported a dark, well-trimmed beard.
Emirikol was an incredibly passionate individual who was prone to rapid shifts in his mood. He had a heroic core, a desire to do good, but he often he wrestled between this and his desire to gain magical power.
Emirikol was a powerful wielder of arcane magic, He was also said to have perfected the use of disintegrate, having used it to destroy countless foes and underlings that had displeased him, and had a contingency on him to cast disintegrate if he was attacked physically. He could also cast power word, kill.
According to some accounts, later in his life Emirikol became permanently under the effect of a potion of flying after having experimented with a number of potion combinations.
Emirikol possessed an amulet of the planes, an earring of protection +5, a ring of joining, a ring of wizardry, a rod of beguiling, a wand of wonder,
Emirikol also owned a wand that could cast prismatic sphere, prismatic spray, and prismatic wall. And a robe that acted as both a robe of the archmagi and a robe of scintillating colors, but whose effects were only accessible by wild mages.
Emirikol spent most of his time dealing with matters pertaining to other worlds and planes across the multiverse.
Emirikol was an associate of Mordenkainen.
Emirikol had a widely varied history that was hard to pin down,
While living on the world of Nerath, Emirikol was educated in the art of shadow magic within a tower that existed simultaneously in the Prime Material plane and the Shadowfell. After his tutelage he left, only to return years later and kill his former mentor in a public duel. He then rode off on a summoned steed of shadow, killing any who opposed him with rays of fire and shadow. Emirikol went on to spend many years studying the mysterious elemental energies that well up within the Elemental Chaos.
At some point he engaged in a six day long battle with a the storm titan named Volturnus. He used every spell he knew during this battle, even summoning demons to rend his opponents flesh. On the sixth day he climbed atop a storm-swept rocky spur and put an end to the battle by shouting power word, kill.
When Mordenkainen proposed his theory that elemental magic was potentially the root of all other forms of magic, Emirikol called him out as delusional and put forth his own theory. Believing that most systems of magic had no meaning outside their users, depending upon them to have context, he proposed that elemental power existed apart from them &mdash the Elemental Chaos being proof of his ideas. He realized that people unknowingly accessed the energy of that plane, observing that many spells, disciplines, evocations, and prayers either created or manipulated elemental energy &mdash rather than being driven by that power as Mordenkainen proposed. 
Eventually, after years of studying the energies of the Elemental Chaos, Emirikol came to the conclusion that harnessing elemental power in its purest form required becoming an elemental savant. Though craving the power that entailed, he understood the risks of such a transformation and was unwilling to sacrifice his mortality for it.
While on Oerth he teamed up with a group of powerful adventurers to steal a powerful artifact from Asmodeus called the vallis crystal. Afterwards they went their separate ways, but of the group only he and a paladin named Klysandral would be remembered.
He later engaged another powerful wizard, named Tinnestron, in a battle upon the tip of a narrow peninsula called Point Harrow. The magical power they unleashed there resulted in a continuous storm of strange magical destruction, which had many subtle portals to other planes. This destroyed Point Harrow and many assumed both of the wizards too. But Emirikol survived and went on to construct within the eye of that storm a fortress of pure iron with a crystal spire resting atop it, the latter of which measured  from top to base. At the base of the spire was constructed a small wooden pier.
Some time after this, he engaged in a dark pact with Demogorgon in which he was traded ownership of the legendary ship Demonwing. This included giving him demonglass, a magical item that gave its possessor the right to control and claim ownership over Demonwing, which he proceeded to hide somewhere on the ship itself.
In the late-15 century DR, Klysandral passed away. Some sources claimed this occurred on the world of Toril, while others said it was on Oerth.Hellfire Requiem is sort of a remake of the older adventure module, A Paladin in Hell. For the sake of completeness and because Hellfire Requiem itself states that the history of Emirikols life is hard to pin down, we have opted to present both versions of events.
The Torilian version of events state that sometime prior to Klysandrals death, the Demonwing had been barred from entering the material plane,
Through the work of Asmodeus cultists,
Emirikol quickly realized and explained that his spell did not have the intended effect, instead causing the lower levels of the fortress to become their own demiplanes. With the lowest reaches featuring a portal to the River Styx, where his vessel Demonwing stood. Once it was reached, he believed they could sail themselves to another portal, and if not they could acquire help from individuals known as Fai Chen and Mahadi. Duke Ulder Ravengard then interrupted him, informing the attendants that the lower levels were overrun with fiends.
The Oerthian version of events claim that Emirikol was too busy to attend the paladins funeral himself, so he sent a trusted companion named Tiae to pay respects for him and report on what happened at the funeral
Emirikol was surprised, yet intrigued, when through the ring of joining he witnessed the temple being transported to the Nine Hells. 
Wanting to keep abreast of the situation,
When the adventurers arrived to his palace Emirikol treated them with generosity and kindness. He summoned an unseen servant to bring them wine and acted completely sincere. He went on to explain to his guests that he discovered the temple was transported to a strange non-area, existing somewhere between the Stygia and Malbolge, which made normal planar travel to it impossible. He offered them use of his plane-hopping ship Demonwing to get there, lying that it could get them directly to it. In actuality, Demonwing could only get them to the closest access point and he had the ulterior motive of wanting to get rid of the ship before its inhabitants could enact a mutiny against him. Once the adventurers agreed, he teleported them onto the spires pier. And thanks to her ring of joining, Tiae was privy to this entire exchange.
On the ship the adventurers met Demonwings unusual crew, including its glabrezu captain Ungurth, who informed them that he was already told where to sail the ship. In approximately three to five days after disembarking from Emirikols pier, the Demonwing would arrive in Stygia. For most of their journey the crew ignored the adventurers, only acknowledging them whenever the ship came under attack.
Throughout various points of his life rumors circulated that Emirikol had in his possession one of the orbs of dragonkind, the Codex of the Infinite Planes, and the Machine of Lum the Mad. By the late-15 century DR, Emirikol was rumored to possess the eye of Vecna and an orb of dragonkind.