Emmeline Hallowleaf was a human woman, devoted to the goddess Selûne in the mid-to-late 15 century DR.
Emmeline Hallowleaf was wed to Arnell Hallowleaf, a Selûnite elf werewolf. Together they had a single daughter Jenevelle Hallowleaf, who was taken from Selûnes grace by the faithful of Shar. Emmeline always hoped to have more children, but that was never to be.
Around the Year of the Elves Weeping, 1462DR, Jenevelle was left alone in the woods at night and directed to find her way home, as was tradition among the Selûnite faithfuls soon-to-be-adult children. Unfortunately, a group of Sharran priestesses led by Mother Superior Viconia DeVir plotted to abduct the child during the rite and utilize her for their own ends. Arnell Hallowleaf learned of the Sharrans plan, took on his wolf form and tried to rescue his daughter. He was too late however, and Viconia and Shars servants abducted Jenevelle. The couple were taken to the same Sharran Church where their daughter was brought to, called Cloister of Sombre Embrace. During their imprisonement, they saw their daughter and other Sharran neophytes were brainwashed into worshipping the Lady of Loss. They were the torturing subjects of their own daughters training instructed by the Sharran and they had to watch their daughters memory and personality being erased over and over. Sharrans also cursed their daughter with a bond of torment between the couple and their daugther. Despite being imprisoned and tortrued for years, the couple still hoped to see their daughter to become herself again.
The couple would be the last segment of Shadowhearts fully convertion to the Lady of Lost. Lady Shar herself would have seen Jenevelle, or Shadowheart as she was renamed, kill her own parents in veneration to embrace of Shar to become Shars new chosen, and reform the order of Dark Justiciars from the Gauntlet of Shar.
As the Absolute crisis shook Baldurs Gate, Jenevelle Hallowleaf, now known as Shadowheart, may had discovered her true nature which led her to confront the dark goddess. Shadowheart could choose to abandon Shar for Selûne and give her long-suffering parents and herself freedom by end Emmelines and Arnells lives, or choose to save her parents and bravely bears the curse.