HumanNetherese arcanists are assumed to be human.
Evaereol Rathrane, also known as Rathrane of Jethaere, was a Netherese wizard later risen as a unique wraith-like, magic-draining undead.
Evaereol resembled a net, or a cloak, with arms and a head.
In death, Rathrane was single-mindedly driven to find and assimilate magical power.
In life, Jethaere had been a spellcrafter and constructor of magical devices, who had also been able to summon dragons. In undeath, he depended on his ability to master and assimilate magic. However, he also displayed the ability to hide within the Weave. At the height of his power, he was able to speak mind-to-mind with distant creatures, even undead.
Evaereol could barely interact with physical objects once dead, but of note, he had created at some point a magical item in which he bound himself to wait out the phaerimm in life. He only managed to escape after its misuse broke it.
In life, Jethaere had been a researcher of magical energies in death, all he could do was seek out magic to master and consume.
Evaereol had been well-respected in Jethaere. He was able to spell-call a dragon. He was aware of Larloch, somehow.
Evaereol Rathrane had once been a wizard from the Netherese enclave of Jethaere. In life, he was aware of Larloch. He was forced to flee like many others because of phaerimm depredations after fleeing, he bound himself within a magic item, and then found himself trapped for entirely too long. He was released at some point by the misuse of the item, and afterwards followed a track of magic towards the city of Silverymoon. While there, he and a number of other similarly bound mages came across Alustriel when she sought access to an underground vault beneath the palace. They hurled spells at her when attacked back, they took refuge in the Weave itself. Alustriel was injured, but survived.
Evaereol separated from the others and followed Alustriel, finding her connection to the Weave irresistibly attractive, then rode the spell-link between her and Laeral to Waterdeep, where he drank furtively of every translocation Laeral employed within her tower, finding the womans magical power equally enticing. He attempted to move against her when she was discussing spellfire with Mirt, but Mirts watchghost, Ieiridauna Amalree, spotted and attacked him, which startled him into flight. He decided to instead seek the spellfire that Laeral had mentioned.
Along the way, the wraithlike apparition came across Besmer and fed on the enchanted wand the man carried. It later tried to feed on some enchanted swords borne by Sharantyr while trying to absorb a lightning spell of some sort which she unleashed from a gem, it initially appeared to be invigorated, but finally recoiled and fled. Along the way, Evaereol had made a number of discoveries, including that Hlael Toraunt was serving Drauthtar Inskirl, that Thavaun had slain and impersonated Orthil Voldovan with shapeshifting magic, Sharantyr had been hurled away by magic, and that Laeral and Asper were present in the final battle where Shandrils spellfire went haywire.
When he was finally able to reach Shandril Shessair, the spellfire wielder, her flame was going haywire he still tried to absorb its power, and in so doing he became as large as a dozen dragons, almost completely solid, and powerful enough in his own judgement to overcome even Larloch, only to find out again that he had absorbed more than he could while still continuing to exist. Evaereol was thus annihilated by the spellfire, only to release some of his memories into Shandril, who gained knowledge of many things from them, and apparently also a number of spells.