Fallon was a Nentyar hunter in .The event may also have happened in Mirtul 6, depending on whether midnight had fallen by the time the Rotting Man yielded in the fight against Araluen.
While on garrison, Fallon wore dark green leather armor, and a silver leaf pin clasping a sea-green cloak.
Fallon was somewhat of a stickler for protocol who had a mild antipathy for Elowen, often going out of his way to annoy her. He was somewhat bothered by mention of the fall of Dun-Tharos. He also had an usually sour disposition, and a particular thirst for praise. He also had a bit of a covetous, envious streak. All of those seemed to stem from a certain egotism.
Though Anammelech had been the one to cultivate a relationship with him, he eventually came to serve the Rotting Man without any protest- albeit out of fear rather than loyalty.
However, he still had at his core a certain respect for life.
Fallon was still a hunter trained by the Circle of Leth whose survival skills were superlative. He also knew of the way to employ the Keystone effectively, being able to use both created portals and allowing other influences into the Celestial Nadir.
Of note, Fallon had been granted several special arrows by the Nentyarch.
Anammelech had been Fallons handler for some time. He went out of his way to annoy Elowen.
Before , Fallon was already Anammelechs ears in the Nentyarchs court, in exchange for gold.
Fallon was amongst the Yeshelmaar garrison that greeted Elowen when she arrived there alongside Araluen in . He attended the meeting with the Nentyarch the day after, where he was named one of the people that would accompany Araluen in her quest to confront the Rotting Man.
He suggested to Elowens group that they meet at Yeshelmaars Skymeadow as a distraction while he collected the keystone and Araluen, then took them to the Arches of Xenosi while the party was away they barely managed to catch up to the door he opened into the Celestial Nadir. Fallon emerged on the Arches of Xenosi, where he rendered the keystone upon Anammelech, who set up an ambush and sent him on his way to the Rotting Man. He was contacted directly by the Rotting Man, telepathically, on Anammelechs death, and given orders to proceed through an underground route, as well as a magical compulsion to obey the Talontyrs orders.
While underground, in a moment of hesitation, the compulsion thereatened to destroy his mind it was only Araluens intervention that stopped it. Relieved, Fallon decided to switch sides again. He placed an ambush for one of Damandas underlings in a hidden vault, easily slaying Ezekial. On reaching the surface, however, he was soon captured by Damanda upon learning that Araluens touch disintegrated vampires in a flash of light, she decided to keep him alive so that he could keep her moving. Nonetheless, he prepared a stake while they prepared to ambush the party coming after him.
When the party finally caught up to the zone where the vampires were ready for the ambush, Fallon cleverly clued them as to the fact he wasnt alone. He turned agains the vampires, however, just in time to prevent Lex from slaying Elowen he staked her, but she retaliated just before disintegrating, slaying Fallon.
After his death, Fallon was redeemed by Araluen. She challenged the Rotting Man that same night, placing the day of his death as Mirtul 7.