Fernd Krip was a hard-working miller from the Eastern Farmlands whose labor fed the city of Daggerford circa 1372 DR.
Fernd Krip was a balding human man in good physical shape and advancing years. His hands were covered in callouses, evident of his hard labor.
In his sane state, Fernd was friendly and well-liked by the commoners and farmers, as well as the clerics of the Harvest House in Daggerford. During the several months of insanity, Fernd was horrible to his neighbors and farmers who lived in the ares, something he felt extremely guilty about after his health was restored.
Fernd owned the mill and the silo in the Eastern Farmlands. He was also a devote follower of Chauntea and was gifted with Chaunteas Golden Grains he kept in the mills basement.
In 1372 DR, Fernd Krips grain and flour production started slowing down over several months. This was alarming as his mill was one of the major food sources for Daggerford, and the city was balancing on the edge of famine. Maerovyna, a cleric of Chauntea thought that the slowdown was caused by Krips heartbreak as his lover recently married another man.
Distraught and depressed, Fernd met a serene and kindly monk Loru whom he befriended and allowed for him to camp in a small cavern accessible through a cracked wall in the mills basement. The monk was around the miller through the three months when production was halting, and Fernd slowly started going mad.
His insanity stopped the production almost completely, leaving the silo and the storage of the mill virtually empty, messy, mice and rat infested. The miller became trapped in a constant state of raving agitation, spewing incoherent nonsense and ready to attack anyone who talked to him about the grain. He constantly repeated, "the secrets in the flour." The reason for the strife, of course, was the "kindly" monk who pretended to be the part of the Old Order. In reality, a death slaad who was slowly poisoning the millers mind in an attempt to have him infect the grains with Lorus toxins that would allow him to raise an army of slaadi from those who consume the produce.
Thankfully, the threat of famine prompted Maerovyna to seek help from adventurers. She caught the attention of the Hero of Daggerford and sent their group to investigate the shortages. Once they arrived, the heroes faced the raving lunatic and, instead of aggravating him, investigated the mill, eventually reaching the cavern underneath. Loru maintained his face facade until the Hero found the salads journal and confronted the extraplanar being. In the ensuing battle, the death slaad was slain, and the millers sanity was restored with eh aid of Maerovynas acolyte.