| class5e        = 
| refs5e         = 
Fibblestib Pinebark was a rock gnome from Gnomengarde in the late 15 century DR. He was one of the tiny kingdoms foremost inventors along with Dabbledob Plasterpatch.
Fibblestib preferred solutions to problems which addressed root causes rather than symptoms. His ideas for inventions could be rather unrealistic.
In addition to his innate gnomish abilities, Fibblestib (like everyone else in Gnomengarde) had some training as a wizard. In combat, he preferred to attack with spells like ray of frost and magic missile.
Fibblestib was also skilled at creating magic items.
Fibblestib was a close collaborator with Dabbledob. The two could argue about their very different ideas about how to solve problems, but they worked closely together in their workshop at Gnomengarde to create magic items and inventions, many of which served no real purpose.
As the most respected inventors in Gnomengarde, Fibblestib and Dabbledob were seen as reliable and trusted pillars of the community. In turn, both inventors were highly devoted to their kings, Gnerkli and Korboz, but could be somewhat indifferent toward the well-being of other members of the kingdom.
When Gnomengardes King Korboz went mad in the late 15 century DR, Fibblestib and Dabbledob made curing him their sole focus, even as the mimic responsible for his condition rampaged through the tiny kingdom. However, the two inventors quickly reached an impasse as Fibblestib argued that the pair should invent a  sanity ray, Dabbledob dismissed it as "stupid" and instead argued in favor of inventing a straitjacket.
Not long after this incident, the town of Leilon asked Gnomengarde for aid, specifically for any magical items or weapons that could fend off a suspected attack by the green dragon Claugiyliamatar. In response, the two gnomish inventors created the Gnomengarde grenade, a weapon suffused with wild magic, and personally attempted to deliver it to Leilons agents at a meeting point in Dumathoins Gultch. Because of the items instability, it was transported in two parts Fibblestib carried the weapon itself while Dabbledob carried a magical key which was used to arm the device. However, the necromancer Ularan Mortus sent undead to waylay the pair, who survived thanks to their escort, Bindlemint Mincemower, fleeing to find the adventurers from Leilon.