adventurer
Filani of Tantras was a female human wizard and sage from the city of Tantras who settled in Tilverton in the mid-14 century DR.
Filani was a tall, beautiful woman, heavily built like a mighty warrior, who always remained graceful and dignified. She habitually wore voluminous and magnificent embroidered gowns, and wore her long dark hair with white ribbons.
She was dignified and uninterested in adventure or battle like other mages, preferring instead to live her life in a calm fashion and spend her time in comfort. Filani was an excellent judge of character and could keep track of a lot of small details, so with her regular information-gathering she could almost always accurately predict events that occurred in the area.
Filanis home in Tilverton was a humble three-story building in the Old Town she wryly called the Tower of Wits and Work, which stood on Gateguard Road across the street from the Temple of Gond Wondermaker.
Filani was a sage specializing in the history and political affairs of the lands around the Dragonreach (including her home city of Tantras) and the Moonsea North. She was not actually a scholar but a businesswoman who dealt in information. Such information was reliable and came at a reasonable cost, though Filanis insight depended on the amount offered. She did not trade in scrolls, magical items, or spellcasting services.
Filani could often be found in Tilvertons marketplace and inns, speaking with caravan folk to learn news and goings-on. She bought them drinks and meals in exchange, and she had many regular sources who knew they could get a free meal from her while passing through. This kept her very well-informed in local and foreign affairs.
Hailing from the city of Tantras in the Vast, Filani made her home in Tilverton before 1358 DR, fleeing undisclosed legal troubles back home. Before settling down, Filani spent time adventuring along with her friend Thungor Triblane, who came to operate the Windlords Rest inn just down the street from her home. She still lived there through the 1360s DR. She became known as Filani of Tantras, and was one of the towns most famous mages alongside Gahlaerd Mossmere.