Firkraag () also known as Lord Jierdan Firkraag, was a red dragon living in the Windspear Hills in Amn and masquerading as a human noble circa 1369 DR.
He took over the area after financially ruining the rightful owner of the lands, Garren Windspear, and made his lair in an ancient unidentified monastery and the tomb of King Strohm the Third. Firkraag surrounded himself with such minions as orcs, hobgoblins, orogs, ogrillons, wolfweres, and golems. Another notable follower of the dragon was Tazok, previously a minion of Sarevok.
Having been in the past wounded by Gorion and "his Harper friends" in the Storm Horn Mountains, Firkraag plotted revenge against Gorions adopted child when he or she arrived in Amn in a party of adventurers. They could meet the polymorphed "Lord Jierdan" in the Copper Coronet in Athkatla, and he would make a generous-seeming offer for them to come and help clear out the monsters infesting the lands supposedly belonging to him.
If they took the bait, however, they would find themselves attacked by apparent monsters as soon as they entered the hills—only to find after the battle that the attackers were really knights, both sides in the battle having been fooled by an illusion to think they were fighting monsters.
Firkraags plan did not end there, however, as after Garren Windspear offered to clear the adventurers names for murdering the knights, the dragons minions kidnapped his child from right under their noses. The adventurers could then elect to go after Firkraag and his captive, fighting through his lair and finally discovering that he was actually a dragon. At that point, Firkraag said he was growing bored with his game and let the heroes take Garrens child with them only if they could defeat his pet wizard. Firkraag himself was not particularly interested in fighting but would oblige the adventurers if they wished to attack. If evilly inclined, the adventurers could also make a deal with him to obtain the deed to the lands from Windspear in exchange for minor magical items. If killed, however, Firkraag would leave behind his wealth, scales that could be used to make a powerful suit of armor, and the holy avenger Carsomyr.