Firtha Kerdos was the mother of Captain Hedron Kerdos of the Wicked Wench, who resided in Targos of the Ten-Towns in the late 14 century DR.
Firtha was a rotund, aging harpy of a woman with a sharp and bitter tongue. Her aged body was achy, and her eyes were "taken by the wind."
Firtha was once married to the captain of the Wicked Wench, a cargo and fishing vessel that sailed Maer Dualdon. The ship was named after Firtha, who was called Umberlees favorite daughter by her husband. Firthas son, Hedron Kerdos, took over the captaincy of the ship after his fathers death. The man loved his mother to death, despite her more than hostile personality. She was a reclusive person who did not like company and rarely left her home.
The old woman knew a cornucopia of stories and legends about Icewind Dale. She also possessed a certain gift – she could feel ill events approaching, which manifested as aches in her old bones and in certain movements of the wind. She also had prophetic dreams similar to those of an Uthgardt seer. Despite the old womans low opinion of the northern barbarians, one of the adventurers suspected Firtha had barbarian blood in her veins and inherited the gift of Sight.
By the , Firtha had spent most of her life in Targos. Her home was a humble stone cottage near the docks, filled with a small army of pet cats, including an especially gluttonous feline named Loki. The same year, Targos was besieged by orc and goblin armies of the Legion of the Chimera. Many inhabitants of Targos fled the town, but Firtha and her cats stayed behind. 
When a band of goblins infiltrated the town through underground smuggling caves, two of the green-skinned invaders broke into the old womans home. A group of adventurers from Luskan arrived in time to save her life, sent by Captain Hedron Kerdos to check on his Ma. Another sad event that happened during the invasion was the disappearance of Loki, the cat. The creature snuck into one of the towns warehouses and gorged on the resident vermin, eating itself to death. Lokis body was returned to old Firtha.