Captain Flim was an officer of the Purple Dragons who commanded the garrison in the town of Ghars in Cormyr in the mid-to-late 14 century DR.
He was professional and composed, even stolid, and slow to catch onto conclusions. He was respectful to authority. When he must ensure peoples compliance, he would ask politely, then ask sternly, and then make threats to get it.
He had a grizzled beard.
In the , Cormyrs Merchants Guild was set to hold its Grand Council in Ghars, which drew agents of the Iron Throne and Zhentarim Flim and his Purple Dragons arrested one of the former and two of the latter in two months.
When the beheaded body of blacksmiths assistant Dovo was found dead after impersonating the ghost of the bandit chieftain Fastred outside Ghars on the morning of Eleint 17, the , Captain Flim was among those summoned to the crime scene, bringing two Purple Dragons with him. The experienced solders were unperturbed by the grisly sight and waited while others investigated. As Flim was focused on security in Ghars and watching for enemy agents, he allowed the War Wizards Benelaius and Lindavar, and their servant Jasper to investigate the murder.
The next day, Flim led a patrol near the Vast Swamp when he encountered the gnome Darvik, who reported finding a dead body. Leading them to an open tomb in the swamp, Darvik showed them the deceased, which Flim recognized to be the kings envoy, Grodoveth. Leaving some soldiers and guard, Flim returned immediately to Ghars, dispatched a messenger to Suzail to report it to the crown, and alerted Mayor Tobald, and they informed Benelaius, Jasper, and Lindavar. Subsequently, Darvik guided Flim, Jasper, and Lindavar through the Vast Swamp and back to the site. They investigated the scene of the crime and learned the tomb to be that of Fastred himself, and Flim began to fear his ghost really was behind the murders. Afterward, Darvik led them out and headed back to his holding, though they had to evade a thornslinger tree on the way.
During preparations on Eleint 19 for the arrival of the Merchants Guild, Captain Flim and a dozen-strong unit of Purple Dragons kept watch in the town square. At the Sheaf of Wheat, Jasper brought him instructions from Benelaius and Vangerdahast, including orders to execute the killer once exposed by Benelaius. Flim was resolute in obeying the orders without hesitation. Jasper was ready to assist Flim, but he had no need of him. Flim did however ensure Jasper was granted access to the Merchants Guilds welcoming dinner by Mayor Tobald.
After the dinner, however, late that night, Captain Flim ordered a number of townsfolk to go with him and a dozen Purple Dragons to Benelaiuss cottage, where the War Wizard would expose the murderer of Dovo and Grodoveth. When they complained, Captain Flim intimidated them into complying. They arrived at midnight. Flim had his soldiers guard the gathering and declared the execution of the killer would be by hanging from the nearest tree. Though Flim was suspicious of Kendra, Benelaius revealed a plot by the Iron Throne to poison the Grand Council, and even the whole town, with blackweed put in the water supply by Mayor Tobald. However, as Flim went to apprehend Tobald, Benelaiuss cats knocked over the braziers used for lighting and the sudden darkness let the treacherous mayor escape into the Vast Swamp. Flim pursued with a lantern, but couldnt reach him. Instead, the real ghost of Fastred appeared and drove Tobald into a bog, where the mayor drowned.