Florin Falconhand () was a human ranger, a founding and senior member of the Knights of Myth Drannor, and the husband of Dove Falconhand.
Florin was a tall human male with curly hair.
Florin was a direct but polite and honest person.
thumb|313x313px|Young Florin Falconhand in 1348 DR.
Florins father was Hethcanter Falconhand, a retired human captain of the Cormyrean army, and his mother was the half-elf mage Imsra Skydusk. Florin was thus the distant descendant of Endeir Falconhand who was present at the founding of Cormyr in the .
Florin looked entirely human, despite his heritage, but maintained a childhood interest in elves and nature. His mother encouraged him to garden, but his father organized him an apprenticeship with Hawkstone, an armorer in Espar. Despite this, Florin preferred nature, and earned the nickname "Silent" from his many walks in the woods. He became skilled with the longsword and two-handed sword. He also became friends with Doust Sulwood, Islif Lurelake, Jhessail Silvertree, and Semoor Wolftooth.
In 1348 DR, the Year of the Spur, Florin jointly established an adventuring party, the Swords of Espar, with Doust, Islif, Jhessail, and Semoor. They went on to become the Swords of Eveningstar. After many adventures in Cormyr, the expanded group then became the fabled Knights of Myth Drannor, of whom Florin was a senior member. The Knights devoted themselves to defending the ruins of Myth Drannor, largely abandoned by its elven guardians after the Elven Retreat began in 1344 DR.
When Khelben "Blackstaff" Arunsun offered Florin a position as lord of Shadowdale in 1350 DR, Florin declined and the position instead went to Doust Sulwood. Later, in 1355 DR, Florin and the Knights slew the Zhentarim agent Whisper at Whispers Crypt. In 1357 DR, after freeing her from the clutches of the Zhentarim, Florin married Dove Falconhand. Florin then briefly met the Heroes of Waterdeep in the Burial Glen of Myth Drannor in 1358 DR he mistook them for thugs, but heard from Elminster that a group of heroes had come to help liberate Myth Drannor and so he wished the adventurers well. The following year, in 1359 DR, Florin put the word out that he had temporarily moved back to his "ancestral manor" in Espar (actually a humble cottage) with his wife, Dove, to raise their child, Azalar,
During his adventures, Florin acquired Firefoam, a telepathic warhorse, and a hawk named Minstrel.
Florin’s death is not recorded, but it is known that he was dead by 1487 DR when his wife, Dove, was slain during the Shadovar Siege of Myth Drannor.