This is a how-to style guide that attempts to demonstrate the easiest way of writing an article about an inhabitant. The term "person" is used quite loosely to mean any distinct inhabitant of the Forgotten Realms. An article about a person could be about a human, a dwarf, or even a dragon or a god. This can also be used for unnamed and generic characters, as well as named characters. Please note these are all non-player characters (NPC), and player-characters (PC) are usually homebrew, and not allowed on the wiki. If your article is about a species or a race, then you should see HelpWriting an article about a creature.
You might also want to refer to the policy on citing sources to provide references for the statements in your article.
You should begin the article by using the  template to create an infobox. Visit that template page, and copy the text from the usage box. Once you open the "edit source" option, you can just paste this at the beginning of your article and fill in the blanks. Dont worry about trying to fill in every entry, as not all entries will be necessary. The template automatically knows only to display the information that you fill in, so if you leave any of the fields blank, they will just not be displayed. You may remove entries that wont be used to reduce the length, but save some that may be filled in by other uses at a later date. Do try to fill in as many as are applicable, particularly the characters name, species or race, home, and classes if they are known. The template page explains the purpose of each entry and how it may be used. See also the example Person template for Tessaril Winter on this page.
If writing an article about a deity or similar powerful or divine entity or concept, then use the  template, which has many more entries relevant to deities.
Next, begin with a short introduction, to quickly tell the reader who the character is, what they are, and why theyre important. As usual for wiki articles, begin with the name—or names—of the character in bold. For fun, you can treat this like a NPCs statblock or a PCs character sheet, with name, gender, race, class (alignment is typically too crunchy). You can follow with a mention of where theyre from and what they do. For a particularly important character, or a very long article, you can also add a brief summary of other key aspects of the character their personality, achievements, relationships with other important people, and other unique features.
For example
Tessaril Winter, formerly known as Tessar the Mage, was a female human fighter and wizard. Previously an adventurer, she became the lord of the town of Eveningstar in Cormyr. She was beloved as an easy-going and attentive ruler, who used her magic to keep the peace. She was good friends and a one-time lover of King Azoun IV, and notably had a tressym familiar.
This is the common style evolved on the wiki, but you may feel a different arrangement is more effective. But please consider if its really necessary first.
Citations should be placed here, as everywhere, especially those that give a good overview, first appearance, or main appearance of the character.
There are no hard-and-fast rules on what sections should or should not exist within an article about a person, although there is a logical convention that has built up on the wiki with the creation of many articles about people. You might use different section titles, but bear in mind some editors may change these as a matter of habit. You can also change the order of sections, particularly if some aspect of a character needs to be explained first before another aspect makes sense. History can often go first, to explain why a character is in the position theyre in.
Sections are not essential either. A very short article about a minor character, such as Dualah, does not require sections. An article may look odd if it has only one line per section or has more sections than text.
You might consider using, but are not forced to use, the following sections in your article
Description A physical description of the person. In some cases, it might be useful to provide clothing information here, but armor is generally better placed in the "Possessions" section (see below). You might call this Appearance instead, but if you choose to use an "Appearances" section (see below) to note which novels or other sources contain this person, you might want to use Description or Physical description for this heading instead.
Personality The characters personality, views, preferences, even likes and dislikes. This is separate from the "Physical description" above.
Abilities What the character can do thats a bit special. Skill at arms, magic, or thieving, or spells they know, or special powers they wield can all go here. However, if theyre only a 6th-level fighter with nothing else remarkable, then this doesnt really bear mentioning.
Possessions A list of magic items, weapons, armor, and significant or noteworthy equipment or jewelry owned by the character. This can also include property or land owned.
Activities What the character does from day to day in general. This can include their job, duties for an organization, or a special project or plot of their own.
Relationships The persons family, friends, and colleagues. This might include simple relationships such as mother, father, and children, but can also include brothers, sisters, uncles, aunts, spouses, partners, or any other known family relationships. Friends, comrades, colleagues, or similar relationships can also be presented here. However, to distinguish them from family, these may be better presented in an Associates heading.
 Negative relationships such as rivals and enemies may also be described here. If all known relationships for this person are negative, then Enemies might be a more appropriate heading. If no specific individuals or groups can be named, then consider putting relevant info in the Reputation section.
History The persons history, life story, details of their past or circumstances, and their exploits. This is often split into multiple sections because it can get quite long for very important characters, and different periods or significant dates in their lives are better presented under their own subheadings.
Reputation If a character is well known, famous, or notorious, this can be discussed here. If much of this is in fact rumor or legend, this can go under Rumors & Legends.
References Every article needs a References section to list all the citations used. They go at the bottom of the article.
If a section gets very long or must focus on distinct topics, then subsections can be used to further arrange the article and break up a wall-of-text.
=