Fui Dhang was a general of the Shou Lung empire stationed at the Ginger Palace embassy on the Dragon Coast region of Faerûn
during the mid–14 century DR.
Fui had stony eyes and seemed to always have a hardened expression on his face.
He was an officer who held commitment and obedience above all other virtues, and could carry out his duties with strict stoicism.
The general wore leather armor that was covered with a large tunic along with a brass helmet lined with silver.
Since the Ginger Palace was first constructed, General Fui served as the commander of the royal guards protecting Princess Wei Dao.
The general had a contentious relationship with Prince Tang, seething with hostilities that always seemed to exist beneath the surface of their banter. While Fui was the superior military commander, the prince believed himself he had the right to secure victory for the empire of Shou Lung.
Fuis son Yuan ti was an officer in the imperial army. The general pulled some strings to have his son stationed with him at the Ginger Palace, a cushy job that would keep allow him to keep an eye on his son.
In the , General Fui and his men accompanied Prince Kao Chou Tang on a mission into the nameless swamp in order to slay the dracolich Cypress the Black. During their journey along the waters of the swamp, both the general and the prince, along with their men chewed lasal leaves in order to protect their minds from the undead dragons powers drawn from the Invisible Art. The leaves had the unintended effects of inciting anger and belligerence within the Shou men.
In his lasal haze, General Fui Dhang questioned the authority of Prince Tang to the point of insubordination, and was punished with an immediate death sentence. The prince inadvertently chose Fuis son Yuan Ti to behead the general. With his fathers approval, the young officer followed orders and slew his father before they even reached the dragons lair.
After his death, Lady Feng sent the apparition of Fuis visage to guide Tang as the prince ventured out alone to save his mother from Cypress.