Galadaeros was a mature adult male copper dragon who lived in the Purple Rocks and acted as the patron of the all-female adventuring group called the Galadran Company.
Galadaeros appeared to lack the pride and insensitivity that many dragons had. He was fully aware of the needs of humans and acted as a young, playful, honorary uncle and occasional steed to the members of the Galadran Company. While he was fond of people, he was decidedly not fond of how short-lived his humanoid friends were. He could also find contentment living alone. 
His preferred prey were the mountain goats and rothé that roamed the Purple Rocks.
The Sunset Flame had modest skill in magic and knew a limited number of spells.
Galadaeros had a close relationship with Ranressa Shiard, to whom he was a friend and mentor. Ranressa founded an all-female adventuring group named in his honor, the Galadran Company. Galadaeros was deeply saddened by the inevitable deaths over time of Ranressa and other founding members of the Company.
Galadaeros considered the women of Galadran Company as his brood, and they were more precious to him than anything else, including treasure or territory. Galadaeros tore apart foes who directly endangered members of the Company, such as Indratril Khalshus (apprentice in the Arcane Brotherhood of Luskan who killed eight Galadrans). The Sunset Flame often questioned Galadrans on their health and mating plans, reviewed potential new business ventures for the Company, and flew members across the North. While Galadaeros chose not to get involved in the day-to-day adventures of the Company, he did perform the occasional rescue or destruction of a considerable foe.
Galadaeros transported Galadrans through the territory of other dragons as he considered himself exempt from these boundaries. Whenever possible, the Sunset Flame aimed to avoid being drawn into battle with other dragons and it is unknown if he had any alliances or matings with other dragons.
Galadaeros carried a magical amulet that allowed him to telepathically communicate with the other amulet holders in the Galadran Company who formed the leadership.
Galadaeros claimed the Purple Rocks as his territory and made his lair in the heart of the highest mountain on Flamehome Isle. Galadaeros was an isolated dragon who was content to be polite to other dragons and avoid being drawn into conflict.
In the mid–11th century DR, Ranressa Shiard was the sole survivor of a shipwreck and discovered Galadaeros on Flamehome Isle. After multiple failed attempts to kill him, Ranressa started to answer the Flame Tongues questions, who was more amused than annoyed by Ranressas attempts. Their companionship grew and eventually Galadaeros flew Ranressa back to Waterdeep on his back. This startled and scared the citizens of the city, which led Ahghairon to create a powerful mythal—Ahghairons dragonward—to ward off those with draconic blood from entering the city.
Galadaeros became more involved in the North after Ranressa returned to his isle with her newly formed all-female adventuring group, the Galadran Company. The energy and ambitious plans the Company brought into his life delighted Galadaeros, who adopted them into his family and served as a honorary uncle. He allowed members of the company to bring husbands and partners back to the isle to have children and raise families, although he occasionally drowned husbands who conspired against the Company and attempted to steal their treasure.
When the Company found an enormous cache of gold, Galadaeros transported it back to his lair and gave a side-cavern to the Company to be their treasury. In return, the Galadrans gave him a triple share of the discovery. The growing wealth and reputation of the Galadran Company led both the Company and Galadaeros to be targeted by foes. The mage Nuldus of Turtorn utilized magic to enslave several Galadrans, to kill both Ranressa and Galadaeros. He sent these enslaved Galadrans back with amulets that allowed him to speak telepathically with the amulet holders and gave them orders. This plan failed and, in return, Galadaeros destroyed Nuldus and his tower. The Galadrans managed to salvage six of the amulets to allow them to communicate between amulet holders and Galadaeros.
Galadaeros served as an adviser to the Galadran Company, although he preferred not to get bogged down in the Companys ventures for fear of attracting the attention of the Cult of the Dragon. He helped them establish a stable business in providing secure storage facilities for wealthy clients in Baldurs Gate, Neverwinter, and Waterdeep. These storage facilities were located within side tunnels of Galadaeross lair behind boulders only he could move. He learned from experience about the dangers of getting directly involved in the work-for-hire side of the Galadran Company when a job went wrong after the wizard Mrathatos Druin betrayed the company, badly injured two Galadrans. Galadaeros managed to end the battle my attacking Druin, but in the process made enemies of another wizard, Halynder Uinsible.
The Galadran Company continued to be supported by Galadaeros in the 1360s DR, who allowed members to not only utilize his lair as their treasury but also as a hideaway to raise their children. However, he soon drifted apart from the group, and by the 1490s DR, it had been over a century since he had last seen them. Galadaeros returned to a life of solitude, and had not interacted with any humanoids in many years.