Gallio Elibro was Leilons town mage in the late 15 century DR. He resided in the High Tower of Thalivar.
Gallio Elibro was a middle-aged male Rashemi. He was moody, and he didnt like to talk about his research. Gallio had wavy black hair.
While Gallio was regularly possessed by Thalivars spirit, his hard studies wore him out and his sleep was disturbed. Gallios hair was unkempt and he wore an ink-stained robe. Purple ink had soiled his fingertips.
Gallio Elibro came to Leilon to uncover the mysteries of the High Tower of Thalivar. Inside the ruin, Gallio discovered and deciphered a number of Thalivars coded research notes. He reconstructed the towers planar beacon and studied the Ethereal planes creatures with it.
Gallio charged 400 gold pieces for castings of the legend lore spell.
Gallio Elibro shared the High Tower of Thalivar with a garrison of fifteen Neverwintian soldiers under the command of Sergeant Hazz Yorrum. Yorrum left most decisions to Gallio.
Gallio was a high-ranking member of the Order of the Many-Starred Cloak.
At some point in the late 15 century DR, after having torn down and neutralized the High Tower of Thalivar in the center of Leilon, Dagult Neverember had become interested in rebuilding the town as part of the trade route along the High Road south to Waterdeep. As part of Leilons reconstruction, the tower was rebuilt by Neverwintian soldiers under Gallio Elibros supervision. Gallio had furthermore been given instructions by his superiors in the Order of the Many-Starred Cloak to continue the wizard Thalivars research on the planes, predominantly the ethereal plane, and restore the planar beacon that lured extraplanar creatures toward it.
Once the tower finally became safe for people to enter, Thalivars ghost began possessing Gallio, taking control of him during nights in order to continue his old planar research. Neither Gallio nor Thalivar were actually aware of this arrangement, with the former believing he was simply having restless sleep and the latter believing he was still alive but trapped in a nightmare in which his tower was in ruins. A group of adventurers took care of the ghost, freeing Gallio from his possession and allowing him to continue his research.
Upon successfully restoring the planar beacon, Gallio began experimenting with it. He soon discovered the Ruinstone, which was protected by a number of star spawn, and was instructed by his superiors to acquire it. He successfully used the beacon to capture a number of the star spawn, but ultimately decided to hire a band of adventurers to help him lure the remaining monsters into the beacons light to clear the way to the artifact. However, Gallio concealed from the adventurers that his real objective was to acquire the Ruinstone. Unfortunately, just as Thalivar before him had done, he failed to anticipate the surge of wild magic that would erupt from the Ruinstone, which rendered him unconscious and unleashed all of the star spawn he had previously captured. Luckily, two of the ghosts of the Swords of Leilon, Augusta Krul and Ogri Ninebeards, aided the adventurers in defeating the star spawn. When Gallio regained consciousness, he confessed his deception and resolved never to seek the Ruinstone again. The wizard immediately resigned his position and returned to Neverwinter to face his order.