Ganrahast Aeiulvana was the Royal Mage of Cormyr and Chairman of the College of War Wizards in the late 15 century DR. Known in his childhood only as Ganrion, he was the son of Myrmeen Lhal and Vangerdahast. He lived for over a century.
Ganrahast had brown eyes and crimson hair. By 1479 DR, despite having lived over a hundred years, his red hair was only then beginning to show streaks of silver.
He didnt have the presence of either of his famous parents
On the other hand, as public figure, he was very different. He directed the War Wizards at the time of King Forils reign with confidence, and had a sharp intellect.
Ganrahast blamed himself for the death of Princess Jemra Rhindaun, as he was of the belief that her death at the hand of assassins aimed at King Azoun V was caused by a failure of one his wards. He shared this guilty sentiment with no one, however.
Although his magical abilities did not appear to rival those of his predecessors, he was a competent and level-headed spellcaster.
He had the ability to blend in with others, letting him learn more of their intentions then they would otherwise give away willingly. His sharp and even morbid intellect allowed him to foresee threats most people wouldnt have even considered.
Ganrahast was born in the , the son of Myrmeen Lhal, the long-serving Lady Lord of Arabel.
After the death of Caladnei in the , Laspeera assumed the role of Court Wizard and began tutoring Ganrahast to assume the role of Royal Mage.
In the , it was Ganrahast who discovered that Crown Prince Emvar had fathered a son prior to his death.
In the , Ganrahast was imprisoned by one of Manshoons servants in magical stasis in a crypt beneath the Royal Palace in Suzail. Elminster and Vangerdahasts shade rescued Ganrahast but he missed King Forils Dragon Council. 
Ganrahast was of course the son of Myrmeen Lhal and Vangerdahast. As such, he had two sisters Myrmeens adopted daughter Krystin His niece was Nalara Marliir, daughter of Krystin.
His closest friend was his second-in-command, the Lord Warder Vainrence. Though Ganrahast was unsure of the more bellicose direction Vainrance sought to take the War Wizards in, he hadnt reined him in up until at least 1479 DR.