Harper agent
Sister Garaele was an elf cleric who lived in Phandalin in the late 15 century DR. She was a worshiper of Tymora, and spent much time caring for the Shrine of Luck in town.
Although scholarly, the young acolyte of Tymora had a strong desire to travel and do good for the people of Phandalin. She was also said to be quite zealous, She despised the local terrorists, the Redbrands.
In her capacity as overseer of the Shrine of Luck, she was happy to aid any who offered gifts or favors to her goddess. When she wasnt tending to the Shrine or preaching, Garaele was known to leave town on adventures. She was also an agent for the Harpers for many years.
The cleric of Tymora kept many healing potions on herself. She owned a house immediately adjacent to the Shrine of Luck.
In 1491 DR, high-ranking members of the Harpers made contact with Sister Garaele. She was tasked with confronting the banshee, Agatha, and had to ask her about the location of Bowgentles Book, a renowned spellbook. However, Agatha did not appear to the young Harper, and thus she failed in her quest. She returned to Phandalin exhausted and wounded from her adventure.
Instead of going to confront the banshee again, she planned to find an intermediary to exchange a jeweled comb with Agatha for the information. Garaele believed only a true flatterer would be able to convince the banshee to give up the information.
During the rampage of the white dragon Cryovain around Phandalin, Garaele was summoned to Neverwinter by her Harper superiors. As she was a secret operative for them, this meant that she disappeared from town, leaving no one watching over the Shrine of Luck.
Over the next few years, Phandalin fell on hard times as its promised mineral wealth never materialized, and this led the priestess to harangue the people for stronger faith in Tymora.
By 1496 DR, Garaele had cut ties with the Harpers. That year, she began acting as an agent for the shady Dran Enterprises in exchange for lavish donations to the Shrine of Luck. Her new employers had her keep an eye on the comings and goings of the Acquisitions Incorporated franchise operating out of Tresendar Manor, and she ultimately reported to them when the manor came under attack.
That same year, the Temple of the Coinmaiden was established in Phandalin, which Garaele perceived as direct competition to herself and the Shrine of Luck. This led her to became even more energized and frantic in her proselytizing.