Garrulos the Occasionally Good was an adventurer and bloodforge mage in the Utter East during the time of the Bloodforge Wars (648–657 DR). Notably, he found the Pearl of Power and fought to protect the city of Konigheim from his brother Wormskull and the results of his own actions.
Garrulos was a tall, muscular man with brown hair and a heroic chin.
He purported himself to be a noble crusader who tried to preserve the Pearl of Power against corruption. However, as his epithet suggest, this was at best a "sometimes" thing.
Garrulos was the brother of Wormskull, a mad inventor. The two couldntve been more unalike, in temperament, skills, size, and looks. About the only thing they had in common was the chin. Needless to say, they feuded a bit.
right|Garrulos and Wormskull realize the limits to brotherly bonds.
Garrulos and Wormskull were a pair of treasure-hunting brothers who delved into an ancient barrow tomb, heedless of a curse said to bring grief and misfortune. They uncovered an artifact known as the Pearl of Power legend held that it could make arcane inventions come alive, but that it had a curse that greed would give rise to war and disaster. However, Garrulos immediately snatched it for himself, cheating his own brother of the glory. "For safekeeping", he claimed, Garrulos took it to Konigheim to present it to the king. This act triggered the Nuts and !Bolts (sic) conflict between the brothers.In the Blood & Magic game, two alternate campaigns are provided, one for Garrulos and one for Wormskull. These appear to be mutually exclusive and an official history is unknown.This king may be the same as the King Grewe of Konigheim, the first to discover the bloodforges, mentioned in The Grand History of the Realms page 95.
Garrulos
right|Hey, at least the fire is out.
Garruloss audience with the king was, inconveniently, interrupted by Wormskull leading a bloodforge army against Konigheim, starting fires in the city, in an effort to seize the stolen Pearl. Missing out on his reward, Garrulos was forced to battle his brother with a bloodforge army of his own, and to get to and breach the citys aqueduct in order to flood the city and extinguish the fires. This just caused a different kind of disaster.
In the chaos, Wormskull pinched the Pearl and carried it away to the Puzzle Palace for his own plans. Garrulos followed to find his brother and get justice, and battled him there in another bloodforge battle.
right|Wormskull shows off his new action figure to Garrulos.
Finally, Garrulos confronted Wormskull in his workshop in the Hall of Wonder, where the artificer revealed hed installed the Pearl inside a great machine, creating the Juggernaut. In a third bloodforge battle, Garrulos was forced to destroy the machine. Afterward, he reclaimed the Pearl of Power and returned it to its resting place in the tomb, for safekeeping.
Wormskull
right|Garrulos learns to always check the contents first.
Secretly, Wormskull stole back the Pearl, embarrassing his brother before the king when he presented an empty chest. Wormskull returned to his workshop in the Hall of Wonder, planning to use the Pearl in his inventions. Garrulos found him there and they fought a bloodforge battle, but Wormskull was victorious.
Making plans for his grand invention and revenge against society, Wormskull hunted for three components hidden inside statues within the Puzzle Palace. Though Garrulos tried to stop him in another bloodforge battle, Wormskull was successful.
right|Well, he started it.
With these components, Wormskull finished construction of the Juggernaut and animated it with the Pearl of Power. Riding it at the head of his bloodforge army, he assaulted and burned Konigheim, defeating his brothers bloodforged defenders. Humiliating his brother and reigning over the ruins, Wormskull had his victory and vengeance. However, he realized hed forgotten to include a way to turn off the still-rampaging Juggernaut...