Gathlarue (also known as Gathlarue the Wonder Wizard) was a Zhentarim wizard of the mid-14 century DR. She kept her gender a secret from the rest of the Zhentarim.
She sounded older than her apprentices.
Gathlarue was dissatisfied by her apprentices.
She carried a ring of teleportation, until Tespril, her apprentice, filched it. At the time of her death, she wore a dark robe. She also wore an amulet that protected her against all poisons, almost certainly a periapt of proof against poison.
She also bore a scrying element, a round sphere of crystal, through which she saw not just events but also thoughts to which she responded, strongly implying it was almost certainly a crystal ball with detect thoughts.
Gathlarue carried a number of enchanted rings that glowed blue when activated those were destroyed soon after. She controlled gargoyles through such rings.
She could cloak herself in a male disguise with her Art. She also knew of a blood spell that had bound her apprentices to her, letting her sift their thoughts at will.
Amongst other spells, she knew one to make herself capable of flight, almost certainly fly, one to arrest her falls, almost certainly feather fall, and a spell that created barriers capable of blocking spellfire which her apprentice Tespril knew as a "forcewall", almost certainly a wall of force. One of her spells allowed her to control darkenbeasts, almost certainly create darkenbeast. She could send visions to distant people.
Her apprentices were Tespril and Mairara, the latter being also the eldest.
She avoided Karkul Memrimmon, and was aware of the goings-on around the search for spellfire. Amongst other things, she was aware of the deceits of Ghaubhan Szaurr.
At some point, Gathlarue had explored Myth Drannor, where shed found a portal atop a roofless tower leading to a hidden redoubt, where shed discovered numerous spellbooks, likely including wall of force. In , she joined the hunt for spellfire after participating in the meeting in which Sarhthor and Manshoon explained the hunt for Shandril Shessair.
Throughout the hunt, she scried on Shandril constantly. She later employed magic to send visions to Ramath, while scrying on Ghaubhan Szaurr, whom she hoped to send after Shandril.
She decided to attack finally at Irondrake Rock. During the attack, she sent waves of gargoyles before attacking herself her attack was short-lived, and unsuccessful. She protected herself from the spellfire with a wall of force or similar spell, but by attacking the cliff atop her, Shandril was able to bury her under rock.
Per Fzoul Chembryl, Gathlarue wanted the Brotherhood ruled by women instead of men, and he was aware and dismissive of her disguised gender.