Gaylyn Dimswart
Gaylyn was the youngest daughter of the sage Dimswart of Suzail, who married a squire from the Wyvernspur family of Immersea in 1357 DR.
Gaylyn was a beautiful and sophisticated young lady. She had golden hair that lit up the room, and a pink, almost glowing skin akin to a wild rose. She wore remarkable jewelry and fashionable gowns appropriate for a young noblewoman.
Like a true noble, Gaylyn knew etiquette, and could easily navigate social and court events. She was happy, upbeat, and earnest.
Gaylyn got along with everyone, her family, and the Wyvernspurs. Giogioni Wyvernspur thought her to be the cheeriest, the most amusing woman hed ever met. Gaylyn and cousin Julia Wyvernspur often played backgammon together, often accompanied by the family matriarch, Aunt Dorath Wyvernspur. 
Her husband Frefford Wyvernspur was head-over-heels in love with his young wife, always looking at her with solicitous devotion, and Gaylyn fully shared his feeling. 
Gaylyn soon-to-be Wyvernspur had her wedding ceremony in 1357 DR. Her father Dimswart spared no expense on the ceremony, trying to impress the Wyvernspur family as they were distant relatives of the crown of Cormyr. Her mother Leona worked tirelessly to organize the lavish event. One of the things the brides family laid gold for were the services of a famous bard Olav Ruskettle (in reality a halfling "bard" Olive Ruskettle). The bard was abducted by a red dragon prowling on the Storm Horns and a sellsword named Alias was hired to retrieve the entertainment.
The swordswoman succeeded and the wedding was to commence uninterrupted. Gaylyn along with her bridesmaids and friends stayed up giggling and celebrating the brides last night of freedom loudly into the morning. The young woman, nevertheless, appeared fresh, happy, and restless with giddiness. The wedding celebration was interrupted after all when Alias, controlled by her azure bonds, attempted to assassinate who she believed was King Azoun Obarskyr IV, and who was in fact the grooms cousin, Giogioni Wyvernspur. The attempt was foiled when the sellswords friends collapsed the tent on the crowd. Even though Lady Leona was furious over this, Gaylyn, her new husband, and their friends emerged from under the tent giggling hysterically.
Following the wedding, the happy couple moved to Immersea, to reside with the rest of the Wyvernspur clan in the Redstone Castle.
In 1358 DR, Gaylin and Freffie welcomed their firstborn child Amberlee. Soon after, the newborn was kidnapped by a wizard named Flattery Wyvernspur, Finder Wyvernspurs construct "child". He attempted to use the child to get his hands on the Wyvernspur familys wondrous heirloom, the Wyverns Spur. The child was rescued and the wizard eventually defeated by Giogioni Wyvernspur, Olive Ruskettle, Drone Wyvernspur, Aunt Dorath, and Cat. Subsequently, Olive became a close ally and a friend of the family. She performed at baby Amberlees Selûnite blessing ceremony but declined the offer to stay at the Redstone Castle.
In the , Gaylyn and Frefford attended a birthday party for King Azoun IV at Lord Partic Thistles estate of Thistleflame Keep. They stayed overnight, and were questioned as to Lord Thistles apparent murder that evening.
By the , Gaylyn had followed in her fathers footsteps. She bore a renowned title of the Sage Most Learned of the Royal Court of Cormyr. Her works included musings on the history of the Barbarians of the Ride.