Georges, often referred to by the initials GMG, was the Guild Master of the Shadow Thieves during their return to Waterdeep, operating out of a hideout within Undermountain in the mid–14 century DR.
Georges was known to be extremely strict, cruel, and paranoid. He encouraged torture to get the information he wanted, denying the release of death to his prisoners for as long as possible. He preferred promotion by way of murdering his rivals within the guild. Georges also was a devout follower of Mask.
Georges had multiple apprentices that he trusted to run the daily activities of the guild. One of the most trusted ones was the halfling Braakus Sinjen. Many of the Shadow Thieves down the chain of command plotted and schemed against their Guild Master—most notably, Hines and Xabash were plotting a coup, taking to heart Georges method of promotion by murder.
Ten years after the events of the Time of Troubles, in 1370 DR, the Shadow Thieves reestablished their presence in Waterdeep via a hidden stronghold somewhere in the upper levels of Undermountain. Under the leadership of the Guild Master Georges, the thieves started expanding and recruiting. The thieves guild presence in the City of Splendors was guided by their desire to avenge the Lords of Waterdeep expulsion of the guild in the past. The Shadow Thieves allied with the drow forces of the High Priestess of Lolth Azurna and collected invaluable data on the City Watchs patrols, bases, activities, and the citys high-ranking officials. During that time, the Shadow Thieves of Undermountain were allied with the kobolds of "king" Grotcheks tribe who watched over the entrance to the mega-dungeon and warred with the tribe of goblins that regularly raided the thieves stronghold.
The presence of the Shadow Thieves in Waterdeep lasted several months. During that time, Georges met a young and beautiful noblewoman, Meryth Phaulkon. He presented himself as a nobleman and the couple swiftly fell deeply in love with each other. Georges realized that he wanted more than a fling and revealed to Meryth his true identity. The young woman thought it to be nothing but a cruel joke, until the Guild Master led her to the the Shadow Thieves stronghold to convince her of his dark affiliation. Meryth did not shun the thief, and overwhelmed by emotions, Georges proposed to the noblewoman. Love softened the Guild Master and made him doubt his chosen path. She accepted his proposal but with one condition Georges was to surrender the guild to the Lords of Waterdeep, wiping them off the streets of the city once again. The love-struck Guild Master agreed. But their happiness was short-lived.
Eventually, the kobold activities attracted the attention of the Lords of Waterdeep and led to the discovery of the Shadow Thieves return. Khelben Arunsun tasked a lone adventurer he came to trust to descend to Undermountain and search for the holy symbol of Mask that indicated the entrance to the stronghold. Eventually, the adventurer managed to infiltrate the organization, eliminating most of the Shadow Thieves and confronting Georges. To the adventurers shock, Georges wanted nothing to do with the guild and their plans. He gave the documents containing the intel on Waterdeeps defenses to the hero. Georges also confessed that his fiancé was taken hostage by Hines, his bitter rival and once-trusted lieutenant, who conspired with the Grand Master Xabash to stop Georges from destroying the Shadow Thieves Undermountain enclave. Meryth Phaulkon was taken to the deeper levels of the mega-dungeon and Georges tearfully asked the lone hero to aid him in her recovery and destruction of the Shadow Thieves.
The Guild Masters scrolls revealed the guilds mission of collecting information on Waterdeeps defenses. The revelation troubled the Blackstaff but offered no clues as to who or what was plotting against the beloved city.
Meryth was taken into Xabashs personal hideout deeper inside Undermountain. The place was teeming with the Grand Masters elite thieves, tamed spectators, and trolls. Khelbenite was able to infiltrate the lair rescuing Meryth and allowing her to reunite with Georges.