Geran Hulmaster was a powerful human swordmage and a member the ruling Hulmaster family of Hulburg on the coast of the Moonsea in the late 15 century DR.
Geran stood  tall and had shoulder-length brown hair that was cut short in the front.
Geran Hulmaster wielded a Myth Drannan backsword that he earned in service to the Coronal of Myth Drannor. He has also wielded the sword Umbrach Nyth, the Sword of Shadows, which was created for Geran by King Aesperus during his raid on Griffonwatch to dispatch the runehelms that were created by Rhovann. The sword itself was a double-edged broadsword with a blade of an unknown black metal. The hilt was wrapped in dark pebbled leather, and its pommel was a flat disk in which small glyphs were inscribed around a large onyx gemstone. It was a sword forged of shadow and meant to dispose creatures of shadow. Geran also had a lightly enchanted suit of leather armor.
Geran was the cousin of Kara Hulmaster, the regent of Hulburg.
Geran was formerly a member of an adventuring group, the Company of the Dragon Shield. After retiring from adventuring, Geran partnered with a ghostwise halfling named Hamil Alderheart to form the Red Sail Coster in Tantras. Geran later left his position with the Red Sail Coster to study sword magic in Myth Drannor under the tutelage of the gold elf swordmaster Daried Selsherryn. However, he was banished permanently from Myth Drannor in the , for maiming a moon elf mage named Rhovann Disarnnyl in a duel over the affections of a moon elf maiden.
When Rhovann seized power in Hulburg in the , Geran was exiled to Thentia with the rest of the Hulmaster clan. Geran engaged in several clandestine missions to destabilize Rhovanns rule and was captured by Rhovann while attempting to infiltrate Hulburg the . As retribution for his maiming by Geran, Rhovann dissolved Gerans right hand with magical acid. Geran was rescued by his friends Sarth Khul Riizar, Hamil, and Miyra, who traveled with him to the Shadowfell to destroy the magical device Rhovann used to animate his golems. Geran later slew Rhovann in a battle at Griffonwatch Keep and took Rhovanns magical silver hand to replace the hand Rhovann destroyed. With Rhovann dead and the golems disabled, the Hulmasters were able to retake control of Hulburg.