Lord High Chief Ghistpok was the leader of a great tribe of goblins that dwelled within the ruined mines of Dekanter during the mid–14 century DR.The word "Ghistpok" has a meaning equivalent to "Chief" among the goblins of Dekanter. While several goblins may have been referred to as "Ghistpok", this individual is differentiated by their relationship with the alhoon known as the Beast Lord. He was the intermediary for his subjects between the people of the world above Dekanter, and his tribes dark god that dwelled further within its depths.
Chief Ghistpok was massive for a goblin, having grown corpulent from the overindulgence he enjoyed as his tribes leader. As his tribe starved from the ongoing conflicts they suffered within their mines, Ghistpok slowly lost the stores of fat his body held and he was left with sagging folds of orange skin that lent to a notably misshapen appearance. 
Ghistpok had manipulated his tribe into a cult that worshiped as a god the Beast Lord, an undead mind flayer that conducted bizarre experiments on the Dekanter goblins. The chieftain held bizarre celebrations that ended with his own goblins being rendered unconscious then taken further underground, and transformed into twisted mongrelfolk.While the term "mongrelfolk" never appear in the The Nether Scroll novel, the story does include creatures fitting their description that were associated with Beast Lord, who historically has created mongrelmen. These deformed Dekanter goblin would then serve the Beast Lord as "Takers", claiming more of their goblinoid brethren. 
While Ghistpoks goblins deified the Beast Lord, it was a great irony that they abhorred the deformed creatures that their "god" created.
According to Lord Amarandarisof Parnast, Ghistpok sold members of his own tribe to the Zhentarim ruler as slaves for future trade by their organization.
Ghistpok and his tribe settled within the amphitheater of the massive central chamber of Dekanter, some time after the , taking up residence within the destroyed garrisons that had been abandoned by the Zhentarim. Ghistpoks community languished during the years they served the Beast Lord, enduring starvation and amassing filth and garbage their surroundings could be considered nothing less than abject squalor.
In the , a group of humans led by the former village elder Sheemzher offered a dead horse as tribute to tribe, in exchange for passage further into the Beast Lords domain. When they encountered one of the own tribespeople Grouze transformed into what they called a "demon", and brought his corpse back to their village the entire goblin community panicked. After a mage among the human group attempted to calm down the tribe with his charm magic, Ghistpok took back control over his tribe, and they resumed their feast of freshly slain horse.
Following the great feast, Ghistpok began the ritual to summon forth the Beast Lord. After the goblins "god" arrived and prepared to feast itself upon the human outsiders, it was assailed by a band of living mind flayers, and absolute mayhem broke out. During the chaos an errant fireball exploded above Ghistpok and he burned to death where he stood.