Sir Glar Chelenov was a judge and magistrate in Heliogabalus as of the mid-14th century DR.The story is assumed to occur during the reign of Gareth Dragonsbane, as Pavel Shemov claims the king is "a paladin of Ilmater" and this happens prior to 1373. Gareth Dragonsbane rose to power in 1359 DR, with no other kings of Damara known to be such paladins of Ilmater. Thus, this article is written under the assumption that the events of Silverfish occur during the 1360s DR.
The man was robust, with a florid face.
He was respectful of holy men.
Amongst other things, he issued warrants for the arrest of inhabitants of Heliogabalus, and managed the composition of squads.
In the early 1360s DR, Sir Glar Chelenov issued the warrant for the arrest of Kosef Demsk after the latter was witnessed slaying Mivar Greyman and leaving his signature weapon in the body. He explained as much to Pavel Shemov, a novice, when the latter came to plead for the gangster.
The next day, Pavel Shemov was found next to a dead guard, Iref Marsk though the novice claimed to have seen a barghest perform the deed, the magistrate deemed it the actions of a mad dog. He extracted a promise from the Temple of the Dawn to expel Pavel if he was seen pressing the issue any further.
When Pavel Shemov was found at the scene of a fire after killing Dor Stavask in aid of Tana Farag, Glar offered him exile instead of death if he agreed to it. Rather than accept, Pavel threatened to go public with his suspicions that Glar was in fact an accomplice to Dor Stavask. Glar relented, and agreed to intercede to have him reinstated, all but confirming Pavels suspicions, though they were never proven.
Though Pavel never truly proved as much, he reasoned that Kosef Demsk was framed by a conspiracy between Dor Stavask and Sir Glar Chelenov, in which Dor Stavask would replace Kosefs signature weapon with a fake and leave the real one at a murder in which the killer would be seen to wear Kosefs likeness, while providing a man selected by Glar Chelenov with a trinket carrying the counterspell to unmake the fake with Kosef at the exact moment he was raided. Glar in turn would have selected the man to carry the counterspell, making sure he participated in the raid. In turn, once promoted over Kosef, Dor would provide more and better aid to conspiracies against the king.