Gommoth the Twisted was the self-proclaimed king of that cult of fire-worshiping creatures that lived within Mount Hotenow during the late 15 century DR.
The mad fire giant was born with a distinct hunch in his back, causing him to stoop lower than his fellow kin and appear much more like a giant dwarf. He was ostracized from his giant community.
Despite his years living in exile, Gommoth had developed quite the charismatic personality and had trained himself well in the art of diplomacy.
Due to the unexplained voices he heard, Gommoth was said to be inflicted with some form of madness. It was believed by some the words he heard were actually the whisperings of the sleeping fire primordial Maegera.
Gommoths influence led his fellow fire giants to once-again worship Maegera, believing the primordials power would allow them to form a new empire for themselves in the North.
Gommoth attracted a number of individuals with affinities to flame to joined his cause, including General Ignazar, the powerful fire archon that took over the abandoned Fireguard Fortress, fire giant commanders Kromar and Grumthrox, the mercenary-giant swordswoman Pyraphenia, and even the great red dragon, Karrundax. 
They even managed to bring on a Shadovar mage by the name of Qalthus.
He lived in exile on Mount Hotenow, alongside many other fire-attuned creatures, such as salamanders, fire archons, flame sprites, and magma brutes. When the long-dormant volcano erupted in the , many of these beings experienced an overwhelming feelings of transcendent euphoria if only for a few fleeting moments. Feeling as though they had fully connected to the element of fire itself, they fervently sought to recreate that spiritual sensation.
Following this cataclysmic event, Gommoth rallied the fire-worshiping beings as his new followers, and ventured deeper into Mount Hotenow to learn more about the enlightening experience they shared. The group discovered that beneath the caldera of Mount Hotenow lay the slumbering entity that caused their great spiritual awakening the primordial Maegera. Gommoth and his followers sought to fully reawaken the slumbering primordial so that it might set all of Faerûn ablaze. His dedication was so fierce and his stature so powerful that fire giants from his former community even joined his cause.
Circa the , Gommoths forces came into conflict with the dwarves of the Hillborn expedition, that ventured into Mount Hotenow to learn more about their ancestral origins and the volcanos great erupted some 30 years earlier. Once they learned of Gommoths plans, they enlisted what aid they could to prevent another disastrous event. 
Ultimately, the Heroes of the Sleeping Dragon Bridge ventured into the Temple of the Primordial, killing Gommoth and his minions, and ending the menace of Maegera.