warlord, ruler, adventurer
Gondegal, known as the Lost King, was a warrior and warlord who, in the Year of the Dragon, 1352 DR, attempted to establish a kingdom centered on the city of Arabel in northern Cormyr. He and his mercenary army launched lightning raids in which they seized much land but looted and pillaged many communities. He was driven out after barely a season by the standing army of Cormyr, the Purple Dragons, led by King Azoun IV, and their allies. Gondegal escaped justice and became a figure of fear to Cormyreans in the generation afterward. Though none of them knew his true fate, he in fact stumbled into the Demiplane of Dread and ultimately became a righteous, honorable champion of the oppressed, as a Knight of the Shadows and commander of the Circle, a rare force for good there.
Who Gondegal had been or where he had come from, no one else knew. He was a complete unknown to Cormyrean authorities by the start of 1352 DR. Duke Bhereu later speculated hed once been a professional soldier somewhere, given his familiarity with siege-craft. Whatever he was, it seemed Gondegal desired to be king, but the only course open to him was to seize land by strength of arms and become king by his own hand. And so he went ahead and did it.
Basing himself out of the Cormyrean city of Arabel, Gondegal recruited mercenaries from throughout Cormyr and the Goblin Marches and the Stonelands. A good number of them were goblins and other demihumans. Chief among his allies and supporters were the saddler Arth Tembroar, the herbalist Azunt Haelcloak, and the clothier turned thief Culdath, a.k.a. Bresk Thrattul, all of Arabel, as well as Baerendros the Blade, a Sembian hiresword wanted for robberies and killings. He was secretly supported by a little-known minor nobleman, Lord Vorik Aris. He raised his army in just a fortnight. To pay them for their service, he said they could have whatever loot they could lay hands on as they went. To his commanders, he promised noble titles and land concessions. But first they would have to carve their kingdom out of the heart of Cormyr.
Meanwhile, Cormyrs young king, Azoun Obarskyr IV, was disinclined to deal with issues of the realm outside the capital city of Suzail.
Then, with his army bought but not paid for and carrying his banners, Gondegal launched guerilla-style raids throughout Cormyr. They ranged as far north as the Desertsedge Mountains and Tilvers Gap and other mountain passes, and captured Tilverton. They crossed the Wyvernwater and captured Immersea in the south and Wheloon, Hultail, and Wheloon in the east, and crossed the Eastern Plains to the edge of the Vast Swamp. They went west to Eveningstar, raided the surrounding farms, and briefly laid siege to the town but could not take it. One of their bases was the former bandit stronghold of Wyvernhunt Keep in the foothills of the Storm Horns beside the High Road.
Gondegal and his mercenary soldiers proved capable and more agile than Cormyrs standing army, the Purple Dragons, able to move swiftly, react faster, and strike without warning. Meanwhile, the majority of Cormyrs army had been stationed in High Horn, ready for an external threat, not an internal one, and hence struggled to muster sufficient forces that could challenge Gondegal. A journal recovered from the ruins fifteen years later recounted how the militia were taken by surprise and the farmers fought back with agricultural tools before barricading themselves in their hall, and there distributing a painless poison to the young and old before fighting to the death. Meanwhile, wandering trolls wiped out the Starburst Swords, and they were recorded as missing. Intelligent monsters such as these had seized the opportunity to spread their own chaos.
In another battle, Gondegals forces slaughtered much of a knightly order. One of the survivors, the paladin known as Knightengale, named herself his arch-nemesis and would pursue him.
With every victory or escape, Gondegals legend grew and new supporters gathered to his cause. In this way, Gondegal enjoyed much early success and rapidly gained control of most of northern Cormyr. Styling himself "the Lost King", he made certain claims of a lineage to the royal bloodline of some fallen realm and a desire to reestablish his rightful kingdom some folk who thought wistfully of these lost realms were sympathetic to his cause. His crown was thought to be looted from a Sembian tomb but he dared anyone to try to take it from him.
But for all his skill as a warrior and general, Gondegal had proved poor as a king. At least one of Gondegals pay-ships, loaded with looted gold, sank in the murky waters around Marsember, still lost by 1367 DR.
Second, Gondegal had not yet dealt with the Purple Dragons. Once they regrouped and formed a cohesive unit, they would retaliate in significant force. It would be the first time they were required to put down an insurrection. Even common farmers quickly volunteered to join the Purple Dragons in the face of Gondegals threat. Meanwhile, the surviving defenders of Tilverton quickly retook their city. 
And third, the Cormyrean crown would summon reinforcements from neighboring lands. Gondegal had disrupted the local balance of power and disturbed or even assaulted the other realms, and seized more territory than he could keep from them. As a result, Tilverton, Sembia, Daggerdale and others of the Dalelands were willing to ally to aid Cormyr in bringing down the rogue conqueror. They were supplemented by adventuring bands, mercenaries, and Cormyrs own militias and War Wizards, and particularly the forces of lords of lands claimed by Gondegal.
The Cormyrean authorities also made sure to disprove Gondegals claims of a right to rule. Agents researched his genealogy in court and temple documents, but turned up no evidence of any noble or royal bloodline. They even interviewed elves, dwarves and even dragons of sufficient and familiarity, and with the participation of the independent and unbiased High Heralds, but they knew naught of it either. Thus, Alaphondar, the Sage Royal, issued a missive dated Ches 11 to the so-called "signet list" of senior Crown servants. In it, he refuted Gondegals claims, though omitted repeating what they actually were, perhaps deliberately, and condemning the bloody warmongering even if they should turn out to be true. It went onto declare Gondegal to be killed on sight and his key followers Arth Tembroar, Azunt Haelcloak, Baerendros the Blade, and Culdath to be outlaws, wanted dead or alive. A similar royal proclamation followed, even as the Purple Dragons mustered for war.
Thus, after regrouping and enlisting the support of its neighbors, the Purple Dragons and a combined allied force brought the fight to Gondegal. They marched simultaneously out of High Horn, Thunder Gap, Tilverton, and High Dale. One force of troops was led by Azoun himself, in his first military command as king.
But entering the occupied lands, they found scenes of desolation and despair.
Meanwhile, in the third week of Eleasis, Gondegal returned to oft-rebellious Arabel and inspired the people to revolt, and successfully. The Indesm, Immerdusk, and other minor noble houses supported Gondegal, while the loyalist Marliirs were put under house arrest. 
King Azoun IV led his Purple Dragons on the march to Arabel. He expected to face the so-called King Gondegal in massed battle or a lengthy siege of his stronghold. 
But Gondegal had already escaped justice, having disappeared in the middle of the last night of his reign or even one or two days previously. The mercenaries had been abandoned, left to look after themselves, and they had no wish to fight and die for Arabel without any gold.
Thus, on the morn of the eighth day, the gates were flung open to the Cormyrean army and they entered Arabel with no battle or bloodshed at all.
Meanwhile, Gondegal made it out of Cormyr and was reported to have fled north and then east through Teshwave, but after this only contradicting rumors and tales gave his whereabouts.
Although Gondegals kingdom was short-lived, it played a significant role in defining the Kingdom of Cormyr thereafter. Gondegals rebellion forced Azoun IV to pay attention to matters beyond Suzail and take action, He also began to strictly enforce laws requiring groups of five or more armed adventurers to have a royal charter to operate, in order to limit future rebellions.
Arabel received an especially large Purple Dragons garrison, for fear of the return of Gondegal, his offspring, or his imitators, as well to guard against rebellion and future attacks. In the years after, Arabel remained in turmoil and beset by brigands and monsters, until Myrmeen Lhal, first as garrison commander and then as lord of the city, reestablished order and provided food, houses, and jobs for the common folk, earning her their genuine love.
Gondegal himself was never captured. His condition and whereabouts remained a mystery in the Realms, but remained much discussed in taverns through the mid-1350s to the mid-1360s DR, usually when caravans went missing anywhere from High Dale to as far as Impiltur or when brigands seemed more active than normal. Many assumed he still lived, and linked all kinds of actions to him. A popular story circa 1356 DR was that he survived as an outlaw king, holding court in the wilderness some place with twenty-or-so zealously loyal followers. This Gondegal was thought to be careful and ruthless, and of course killing all witnesses to his attacks to stop word about him spreading.
When small yet dangerous monsters were apparently being regularly unleashed to plague the countryside and cities of Cormyr, rumor mills naturally supposed it was the work of a mage companion of Gondegal, among others. The worst, and wildest, supposed an alliance of Zhentil Keep and Thay working to weaken Cormyr and hiring Gondegals outlaw band to act as bodyguards for their wizards.
In one odd incident in the winter of the , a large but dilapidated ship entering the Lake of Dragons was attacked by pirates while in the Neck. When its captain emerged to fight, one of the pirates declared him to be Gondegal himself, momentarily halting the battle with everyones surprise. That the man had hair as red as a dwarfs, rather than Gondegals well-known gray, and promptly fled by diving overboard rather than fighting mattered not a whit to the tale. The pirates overwhelmed the sailors two-to-one, captured the sailors, and seized a cargo of goblin-made swords and other weapons since goblins fought in Gondegals army, this was also seen as evidence of the Lost King equipping a new army. Questioned by the pirates, some of the sailors claimed they knew the captain was Gondegal, though not where he was based, but that he was going to Westgate. They even threw in a story of a great treasure to fund his new army, and added the first officer was in the captains trust and knew its location. The first officer was also questioned, but he too escaped, taking any truth with him.
Through the mid-to-late 1360s DR, rumors told of small groups still loyal to Gondegal or sympathetic to his cause, usually placing them where no such group was to be found. Yet there was one—Lord Vorik Aris survived the war without blame and in the , plotted a new rebellion, believing he could avoid Gondegals errors. They were defeated by adventurers and the ghosts of the Starburst Swords, whod been barred from the afterlife by Torm, god of duty, but now had their chance for redemption. Meanwhile, the cooperation of kobolds and troglodytes on ambushes in the Hullack Forest, who were not usually known to work together, was attributed to some charismatic, outsider naturally, Gondegal was put forward as the most likely candidate for his hypothetical leader. During the abraxus affair in the , wild rumors placed Gondegal in Marsember and High Horn and behind the attack on Azoun, but by now such tales were ridiculed. Even the black king piece in the game of chess was sometimes termed "Gondegal".
In the late 1370s DR, a gang of brigands called the Sons of Gondegal and carrying his wolfs-head standard had started harassing caravans and farms between Arabel and the Shadow Gap. Theyd escaped capture by 1379 DR and its unknown what connection they had to their namesake.
A portrait of Gondegal, as he was adventuring in the Demiplane of Dread.
But Gondegals ultimate fate was very different to what people believed. There are two versions. In one, he eventually came into the Buried Realms of the Underdark beneath Anauroch and there stumbled between two standing stones (possibly a portal) wreathed in mist. In the other, after many days of flight from his pursuers, he stumbled alone into an area of marsh under a thick fog.While Anauroch has Gondegal pass between two menhirs in the Underdark, Realm of Terror only has him go into thick fog somewhere, while Champions of the Mist adds the detail of a marsh, making these accounts appear contradictory. The mist dragon Thalagyrt, "Old Lord Memory", was reputed to know the true fate of Gondegal. And the paladin Knightengale tracked him down—perhaps the only person to do so—and suffered the same fate, as she too was swallowed by the Mists. She continued to hunt Gondegal.
Gondegal found himself in the realm of Falkovnia. Initially, he was attracted to the military dictatorship of Lord Vlad Drakov—himself also a mercenary warlord transplanted here from another world—finding it familiar and well suited. Although he did not like Drakovs horrific punishments, Gondegal understood its rulers adherence to military discipline. But, as he learned more, he eventually realized the evil in the lands and grew sickened and wearied of its cruel oppression and taint. So he departed to explore this new land and make his fortune, having various adventures along the way. By the year 735 on the Barovian calendar, he was still surviving in Ravenloft on his wits and courage, not magic, and hed suffered no ill effects from being on the Demiplane of Dread.
But Gondegal later returned to Falkovnia, older and wiser now, intent on being a liberator rather than a conqueror. He sought to unite the people under him, depose Drakov, and seize control of Falkovnia. Realizing his haste had been his undoing in Cormyr, Gondegal was slow and careful this time. Yet again he failed. Drakovs forces crushed his coup in the cradle, broke his organization, and destroyed his allies. But once again Gondegal escaped capture and was hunted by armies.
He fled to neighboring Darkon, seeking refuge in the realm that had long opposed Drakov, and tried to make contact with its lord. He didnt make it anywhere near—three vampires beset him, overwhelmed even his swordsmanship, and drunk deep of his life. Blacking out, Gondegal thought he had finally met his doom.
But fate or the Mists had other ideas. Somehow, Gondegal was rescued by Helna Vladinova, a great Knight of the Shadows and member of the Circle. Some days later, Gondegal awoke, wounded and weak, in the care of her squire, but it took many months for him to recover his health. In that time, he spoke often with Helna, coming to realize his life was on the wrong course and understanding the vital work the Circle did. By the end, he elected to join the Circle and become a Knight of the Shadows himself.
Over the following years, Gondegal grew in wisdom and experience, and recovered the strength hed lost to the vampires. He was a changed man and had gained a true calling. He dedicated himself to the liberation of the Falkovnians, not as a means to his achieving his own power, but for their own sake, and he vowed to fight against Drakov until one or both of them were dead. Working against Lord Drakov and his forces, he aided those he found in need in Falkovnia, hired adventurers to help him in missions, and mentored junior Knights of the Shadows. Once a year, he made a pilgrimage to Avonleigh to meet with fellow members of the Circle.
By 751 on the Barovian calendar, Gondegal was white-haired and leading an armed resistance in Falkovnia against Drakovs tyranny, and with some success. With excellent hit-and-run attacks, a force of kobolds under his command forced Drakovs troops from a region in central Falkovnia. However, Drakov was no stranger to such skilled opposition.
For his dedication, Gondegal had earned the respect and admiration of his fellows in the Circle. In 751, he even undertook the ceremony of Final Ascension to become leader of the Circle himself. No more was he a mercenary, a rebel, a conqueror, a king, or a bandit, now he was a champion. 
Some time before the late 15 century DR, a story had gone around Faerûn that Gondegal eventually emerged from the mists, and did something of great import.
He was known to be intelligent and highly skilled, and very charismatic. He was an adventure-seeker and would try just about anything, but was neither reckless nor foolish, and would not take on a fools errand or a mission doomed to failure. He had such an enormous confidence and self-assurance that he appeared arrogant and domineering. 
By the time he was a Knight of the Shadows and head of the Circle, Gondegal was a seasoned campaigner, a born leader, a veteran of countless battles, his mettle tested and proven, and he knew it and he showed it. But he had total dedication to the Circle and the cause of good in the Demiplane of Dread, and would never willingly abandon his duty. Having found his true calling gave him much inner strength to see him through his quest, though it might be foolish or doomed. He retained his love of adventure and battle, and preferred action to diplomacy or posturing, though he only attacked foes who truly deserved it and he had acquired a sense of mercy hed not had in his early days.
Hed also come to enjoy being seen as a hero. Once, Gondegal had been content with the respect and admiration of his followers and the fear and hate of his foes and ordinary folk. But as a Knight of the Shadows, he appreciated the praise of the ordinary Falkovnians for his efforts to help them. They saw him as a protector of the oppressed and weak, and overlooked his seeming arrogance.
Appearing to be in his forties, though his precise age was uncertain, Gondegal was a large and muscular man, standing over  tall. He had gray that he let grow long and hang loose and a long mustache that drooped below his jaw. His self-assurance was clear to all who beheld him.
His badge and his familys ancestral mark was the head of a grey wolf with red eyes, viewed face on.
Gondegal typically wore a suit of chain mail but upon becoming a Knight of the Shadows he adopted the orders special black plate mail and black and yellow cape, which had an eclipsed-sun clasp.
He always had a sword at hand. His main weapon was Scourge, an enchanted sword that was potent against lycanthropes and shapechangers—this of course proved very useful in Ravenloft.
250px|Gondegal in battle armors granted by his magical rings.
During the rebellion in Cormyr, Gondegal was the owner of a number of magical rings, which changed his appearance or that of his armor.The artwork in The Grand History of the Realms is repurposed from many previous sourcebooks, often erroneously. Gondegals art on page 141, shown here, is a selection of armors from Planar Handbook Mechanus gear, hooked armor, and sectioned armor. As such, it should be considered an example or suggestion, rather than representative of Gondegal. Naturally, they dont show his wolfs head crest. It is unknown what these rings are or what these do.
Apart from his sword, whatever magical items that Gondegal had brought with him from Toril to the Demiplane of Dread were eventually depleted or lost.
An extremely skilled fighter, Gondegal was a specialist in both the longsword and two-handed broadsword, Only occasionally did he use magical protections.
Such was his determination and desire to avenge injustice in Falkovnia, Gondegal was more resilient in battle with tyrants like Lord Drakov. He was deeply familiar with the tactics and twisted law and order of Drakov and his forces, usually knowing just what theyd do next with a gut feeling.
Being a Knight of the Shadows, Gondegal could cast the spells of a paladin, such as cure serious wounds and protection from evil 10 radius, but he could not turn undead.