Gorion was a learned sage and a respected member of the Harpers during the 14 century DR. In his senior years Gorion lived in the library-fortress of Candlekeep, at least between his adventures around Faerûn.In the Baldurs Gate novel Gorion is referred to as a monk.
Perhaps Gorions greatest legacy was his raising of the Bhaalspawn child Abdel Adrian, who played a crucial part in the fulfillment of Alaundos prophecy regarding the god-children. He acted as the foster and guardian to Abdel, preparing him for a life in which he would arise as a hero and even a great ruler of Baldurs Gate.
In his later years he had a notably older-appearing old face, highlighted by a friendly expression and pointed, gray beard. He often wore his long, gray hair tied up in a ponytail.
Gorion carried with him a simple dagger and often wore dark gray robes.
Gorion was a skilled and powerful spellcaster capable of offensive arcane magic and spells that could heal and alleviate grievous wounds.
Gorions friends among the Harpers included many notable personalities, including the Sage of Shadowdale Elminster Aumar, and the Blackstaff, Khelben Arunsun. He was well-acquainted with the elven Harper Entillis Fulsom and was close with the husband-and-wife duo, Khalid and Jaheira. He trusted the couple like no others, and entrusted them with the care of his foster son Abdel in the case he could no longer watch over him.
He was a lover to the woman Alianna, who was in fact a priestess of Bhaal.
right|250px|Gorion, moments before his death at the hands of Sarevok and his followers.
Sometime around the 19th of Kythorn, in the  Gorion was warned of the threat of another Bhaalspawn, Sarevok Anchev of the Iron Throne, in a letter from his old friend Elminster. He sent out for Abdel so that they could flee the threat of Sarevok together. The night the pair fled from Candlekeep they were stopped by Sarevok and his henchmen. Gorion told Abdel to flee and fought off their attackers in order to buy him time to get to safety. While Gorion fought until the end, he was ultimately struck down by Sarevok in the dead of night.In the novel, Gorion is killed by a group of mercenaries working for Sarevok.