Grayshivnarien Taliain, more commonly known as the Fiddler, was a maddened drow bard and assassin who lived in the Underdark.
The Fiddler was an extremely attractive drow woman, with a height of  and short-cut hair. She dressed in a random assortment of mismatched clothing items, and covered her face with thick makeup paint.
Grayshivnarien was originally quite pacifistic and abhorred violence, but after she was driven mad she came to revel in it. As the Fiddler, she was extremely erratic and existed in her own world filled with the echoes of frantic music. She usually ignored anyone who wasnt an assassination target, and followed an internal melody that her violence matched. She liked to get to know the target first and requested a song to play before killing them, a habit that made the audience nervous when she performed and took requests at the Think Easy.
The Fiddler was an proficient musician, and was also skilled in dancing, singing, tightrope walking, and gathering up local news and gossip.
She was skilled with a variety of weapons, had strong magic resistance, and could cast a variety of lesser spells including dancing lights, faerie fire, darkness, darkness, know alignment, and detect magic.
The Fiddlers most prized possession was her iconic fiddle, which was modified to shoot lethal poisoned darts at an unsuspecting target. Its travel case was rumored to be a magical device that could shoot magic missiles.
The Fiddler meeting her boss at the Think Easy.
Grayshivnarien was once a famous and skilled bard, with her talent seeing her rise to the top among her drow and duergar fans. However, a jealous rival bard from the Montroy crime family hired an illithid hitman to remove her, and though she survived its psychic mind blast, her mind was shattered forever.
She wandered the Underdark for a time and was eventually taken in by House Catanzaro for employment by Felyndiira Shinarrvha, who trained her as an assassin and began sending the Fiddler out on missions. Within a short time, the Underdark criminal element was abuzz with news of her deadly prowess. Her fame slowly filtered up to the surface world of Faerûn through the investigations of Gerald of Riveyra and the Forthright Band of Investigators.