Guenhwyvar was a  black panther who resided on the Astral Plane. She was summoned to the Prime Material Plane by the use of an onyx figurine of wondrous power, which was in the possession of the drow ranger Drizzt DoUrden.
Guenhwyvar was summoned through a detailed onyx figurine of a panther. When summoned, the figurine emitted a gray mist which quickly solidified into the panther shape.
She could be summoned to her masters side for 6 hours every other day.
thumb|315px|Guenhwyvar and her figurine of wondrous power.
Guenhwyvars figurine was crafted by the finest dwarven craftsman in the Cormanthor region and enchanted by Anders Beltgarden, a 75-year-old human ranger/wizard who lived not far outside Myth Drannor in 253 DR. It was to be a parting gift for Anders friend, the Bladesinger Josidiah Starym, before Anders died of old age, but Josidiah saw an intelligence in the giant panthers eyes that he felt should not be caged, let alone killed he thought her body should not be enslaved to magic and a masters command.
The elfs arguments eventually appealed to the ranger in Anders, and he could not go through with the slaying. He let the cat go, only to follow her to a hill where Josidiah was under attack by a trio of giants and several dozen orcs. With the help of the panther and Anders, the monsters were defeated, but the cat was mortally wounded from the battle. The pair rushed her back to Anders tower in a portable hole and decided to quickly carry out the enchanting ritual to save the panthers life. Anders called the cat "Whiskers," but Josidiah objected to what he considered such a silly name for such a noble creature. Josidiah decided on the high elven word for shadow, "Guenhwyvar." This, he realized, was the panthers true name all along. Anders intended for Guenhwyvars spirit to become fused with the onyx statuette the statuette was to transform into the panther when instructed by its owner, like any other such magical item. However, during the final stage of the ritual, the magic of the binding also absorbed that of the extra-dimensional hole Guen was partially lying in, causing a brief rift to the Astral Sea. Therefore, rather than being absorbed by the statuette, Guenhwyvars spirit was merely bound to the statuette and came to inhabit the Astral Sea. When she was called forth to test the rituals success, the panther was not a slave like a normal figurine of Wondrous power would produce, but the same panther, with all of her intelligence intact. Also, the figurine summoned Guen rather than transforming into her as a normal figurine would, making the magic item truly unique.
Josidiah used the figurine after it was gifted to him, but when he returned from his quest in the Underdark, he no longer carried Guenhwyvars figurine with him.
At some point, the figurine fell into the hands of a denizen of the lower planes. The denizen gifted the figurine to the drow apprentice Masoj Hunett after Masoj aided him in some way. However, Masojs master, Gelroos Hunett, took the figurine from him. However, when Masoj killed Gelroos in 1297 DR, he retrieved the statuette for himself. Masoj summoned Guenhwyvar to protect him while spellcasting.
Circa 1327 DR, Masoj, now a student of Sorcere, spent six months with Drizzt DoUrden, instructing him in the magical arts. Drizzt became acquainted with Guenhwyvar when Masoj summoned her as a distraction from Alton DeVirs attack on Drizzt. Drizzt and Guenhwyvar became great friends, sparring together and working together during patrols, despite Masojs frustration. During one patrol, Drizzt and Guenhwyvar defeated an earth elemental.
250px|left|thumb|Dinin DoUrden in drider form as he fights Guenhwyvar. 
In 1328 DR, Masoj ordered Guenhwyvar after Drizzt to kill him. Because of her friendship with Drizzt, Guenhwyvar fought against the magical compulsion of the order. She was eventually able to overcome the compulsion and saved Drizzts life. Drizzt returned to Masoj and told him his life would be spared if Masoj would give him Guenhwyvars statuette. Masoj refused, and Guenhwyvar aided Drizzt in defeating both Masoj and Alton DeVir, who had teamed up together on behalf of House Hunett. Drizzt subsequently fled Menzoberranzan with Guenhwyvar at his side.