| alignment23    = 
| refs2e         = 
| patron deity   = Qotal Zaltec
| languages      = 
Gultec was the leader of the Jaguar Knights in Payit in 1361 DR.
Gultec was one of the most powerful men in Ulatos, always close to the ruler Caxal in time of wars.
In 1361 DR, Gultec and the priest of Zaltec, Mixtal, were tasked by Nexal high priest Hoxitl with the mission to capture Erixitl from the local temple of Qotal and kill her, despite Mixtals fear of reprisal.
They managed to kidnap the girl without anyone noticing, but when Mixtal was ready to deliver the fatal blow, they all saw the arrival of the Golden Legions ships. Erixitl profited from their distraction and escaped.
Soon after, Gultex was called by Caxal to a war council, together with Lok, the leader of the Eagle Knights, to discuss how to fight the strangers.
Later, Gultec and his men were stationed at the pyramid of Zaltec during the supposed sacrifice of Erixitl (in truth the Faerûnian girl Martine) and were the first to fight the legionaries, more precisely, the squad led by Daggrande.
Gultec was defeated, and most of his men were killed. He himself managed to escape. Together with Lok and Caxal, he decided to face the invaders at Ulatos.
Gultec personally led the troops in battle, but thanks to the superiority of the Amnian troops, the Legion won, inciting terrible losses to the Payits. Gultec was devastated by the loss and considered himself a man with no more utility.
Later, he was kidnapped by warriors of Tulom-Itzi. In Tulom-Itzi, the local ruler Zochimaloc tutored Gultec, who, thanks to this training, learned to use all his hidden powers he learned to polymorph in all kind of animals, not only jaguar. Just before the Night of Wailing, Gultec sensing a great danger over all Maztica decided to go to Nexal, the True Heart of Maztica and probable source of the danger.   
After the Night of Wailing, he again met Halloran and Erixitl, this time becoming their friend.
However, after a time, Zochimaloc called him back to Tulom-Itzi. After he was back, Zochimaloc explained that they were menaced by Dariens giant ant army, and they decided to evacuate the city.
During the exodus Gultec lead the Itza in many skirmish with the giant ants.
At last Gultec reunited with Halloran and his party, now bolstered by desert dwarves and wild halflings, just after Zochimaloc destroyed the giant ants army sacrificing his life.
Later he led the Itza warriors during the Second Battle of Ulatos
As of 1362 DR Gultec was the ruler of the rebuilt Tulom-Itzi.