Gunter Weiss  was a powerful necromancer, the undead inhabitant of Harrow Hill in the mid-to-late 14 century DR.
The wizard was highly obsessive, and more than a bit immoral. In undeath, he had grown even more so.
Once a powerful wizard,
Gunter Weiss displayed a variety of powers in undeath, being able to make people fall unconscious with a touch,  or even manifest clutching hands bursting from the ground. 
His ghostly form was immune to all spells, harmed only by silver or enchanted weaponry. If embodied in a juju zombie, his abilities were not exceptional for its type.
Gunter Weiss was the owner of Harrow Hill, and presumably, everything in it.
In life, Gunter had sought immortality. In death, he wanted to claim a mortal life so as to return among the living.
Gunter was particularly obsessed with a young woman, Erika.
Once a powerful wizard, in his old age Gunter fell in love with Erika, a young woman who was living with him. Convinced she only spurned his advances due to his old age, he searched for eternal youth and life to the point of insanity. His research eventually turned to undeath. He used his magic to seal up the house, so Erika would not be able to leave.
However, Erika became so disturbed by his work that when he finally made the attempt at the spell that would restore youth to him, she stole the centerpiece of the ritual a silver heart. Gunter died in his hidden chamber, and Erika died, too, trapped by magic. Gunter since remained in the house as an undead presence, waiting for a young body he could comandeer for his own. The event took place around the .
In the mid-to-late 14 century DR, visitors arrived and Gunter cajoled them, trying to get them to surrender a body to him. They surrendered one of their own, the cleric Klaus he managed to protect himself with an enchanted candle. The rest of the group was then punished by the Gods for their abandonment, turning them into lost souls.
More adventurers likely arrived six nights later. They may have ultimately prevailed, but only if they were able to find his silver heart and bring it to his hidden crypt. Placing the heart in his tomb would reunite him with his body, turning him into a Juju zombie.