Gyldro Angleiron was the master smith, an aspiring writer, and the proprietor of Rivington General – a smithy shop in the Rivington district of Baldurs Gate in the late 15 century DR.
Gyldro was a human man with a shiny bald head and a big brown bushy beard. While working in Rivington Generals workshop, Gyldro was typically plastered in dust, dirt, and sweat.
The Rivington General smithy consisted of two interconnected buildings – the main shop, the living quarters, and Gyldros workshop between the two.
Gyldro Angleiron owned a copy of Level Up Your Life – a self-help book that promised to teach its readers charisma and how to become the best versions of oneself.
Gyldro was close with his mother – simply known as Mama Angleiron. His only employee was a dragonborn clerk. Exxvikyap was a loyal assistant who was in awe over the master smiths skills and expertise.
By the late 15 century DR, Master Gyldros family included a mother and siblings. He purchased Rivington General from its previous owner, old Gossoon, sometime in or shortly before the . Despite Having a close relationship with Mama Angleiron, Gyldro was a lonely and sensitive soul. Sometime in his younger days, Gyldro Angleiron ventured into the Feywild and later penned an unpublished memoir about the adventure – Into the Feywild.
By the , Gyldro developed a case of melancholy that worried his mother, who tried to encourage the master blacksmith to find professional help. His depression likely was the result of loneliness. Gyldro attempted to find a mate by utilizing The Fulfilled Heart matchmaking service in Baldurs Gate but received no attention. Maestro Hartstrum advised Gyldro to provide a more flattering portrait that did not stress the mans vocation.
In 1492 DR, Master Angleiron started seeing weapons forged out of infernal iron appearing in the city of Baldurs Gate. Once, a scimitar made of this exotic metal was brought to the Rivington General by a Rivington Rats gang member. That was the third item of the kind. The smith swiftly sold the weapons on to get them out of his shop, believing that these diabolic items would bring nothing but trouble. He, however, wondered where the infernal iron was coming from all of a sudden. The same year, Gyldro was attacked and knocked out by one of the True Soul heroes of Baldurs Gate – the Absolute Adversaries. In reality, it was a shapeshifting Chosen of Bhaal, Orin the Red. She briefly impersonated Master Gyldro Angleiron to taunt the True Soul heroes.
Subsequently, Gyldro Angleiron was kidnapped and murdered by Orin the Red, leaving behind only a blood-splattered letter for the Absolute Adversaries in the smiths workshop. His body was later found in the Temple of Bhaal among other victims slaughtered by the Murder Tribunal.