Gyrion Farseeker was a wizard in the River District of Neverwinter.
thumb|Gyrions human appearance.|196x196px
Before the Spellplague, Gyrion was the leader of the Many-Starred Cloak in Neverwinter. He was very ambitious and believed that the arcane studies of the Many-Starred would lead not only Neverwinter, but the entire Sword-Coast into a brighter future. When the Spellplague hit, he was pulled into the Far Realm along with many of his fellow wizards. Gyrion took charge and tried to help them survive. During their time in the Far Realm the Spellplague energies twisted Gyrions body, turning him into a monstrous aberration. However, Gyrion was able, with much effort, to revert the changes of the Spellplague energy and return to his human appearance.https//twitter.com/trianakvetch/status/976138786483531777
Eventually, Gyrion and three other wizards (Kabal, Nostura, and Lukan) managed to escape the Far Realm and return to Neverwinter. Gyrion was angered by what he saw as the illegitimate rule of Dagult Neverember, and believed that as the last survivors of the Many-Starred Cloak it was their duty to rule Neverwinter. The four formed the Cloaked Ascendancy, and Gyrion used a replica of the Crown of Neverwinter to make himself appear as though he was the true heir of Nasher Alagondar. Secretly, however, he was planning a ritual that would open a gateway to the Far Realm within the city.
When Kavatos Stormeye and the Heroes of Sleeping Dragon Bridge confronted him within the demiplane he had created to perform the ritual, he revealed his true form as an aberrant monstrosity and fled after the battle. He regrouped with Kabal and Nostura at Lukans hidden ritual site just outside the city, but when the Heroes of Sleeping Dragon Bridge arrived to stop them Gyrion sent Kabal and Nostura away in order to finish the ritual himself. After a fierce battle with the heroes, the mortally-wounded Gyrion lamented that he had survived so much only to fail to save Neverwinter. Telling the heroes that it was now up to them to protect the city, he died.