HDang Li, called the High One, the High Lama, and the High Lord of Oceans, was the first such ruler of the theocracy of Tabot.
HDang Li was born in  under a conjunction of constellations. A shepherd found him crying in the wastelands just north of the Haraki Ridge and brought him to the lamas of Dodzin Gompa, where he would be raised The monks saw the child as pure, born enlightened, and fully at one with the Celestial Heavens, as well as highly intelligent and capable of magical powers, Before long, the holy boy was recognized by all the monasteries and loved by the peasants, who gave him many presents.
Very soon, the monasteries were reformed and united under the rule of the High Lord of Oceans, HDang Li. Over the years  and , they even pushed for control of Tabot itself. The nobles of Tabot mustered their armies against the monks, but HDang Li confronted them alone and wielded mighty magic against them. Using the Staff of Oceans, he brought a great flood to a frozen battlefield, and defeating the nobles army. Unwilling to fight a six-year-old boy, the soldiers lowered their weapons and surrendered.
In the years following, the High Lord of Oceans assumed control of the government and established the Council Kashag and other systems. He took away the lands and powers of the nobles and allowed the monasteries to disband their armies, while arbitrating personally on disputed territories and objects.
In , yeti from the Wu Pi Te Shar Mountains attacked Frekang Gompa in the Kume Sa Yeti. They killed or kidnapped 280 lamas out of the total of 400. In response, HDang Li created the Gates of Ocean to protect the monks of Frekang Gompa. Many more tales were told about the High One, some of them almost unbelievable.
HDang Li reigned for 82 years before selecting a successor and walking away into the mountains. He would be followed by six more High Lords. After death, he was said to sit by the side of the Celestial Emperor himself.
The monks of Tabot taught the common people the legends of the first High Lord. A play known as the Whi-yeu Nohg told of the life of HDang Li. It was performed at Dodzin Gompa every year by .
In , lightning blasted the image of HDang Li into an altar in the temple on Mount Shun, during ceremonies at the end of an annual pilgrimage. Lamas who witnessed it declared it a sign of his special favor and thus demanded privileges, but rivals were suspicious of this miracle.
HDang Li recorded his teachings, in his own hand, in a holy tome known as the Puvarna. This was kept secure in the libraries of UChan Gompa. A five-volume holy book he also wrote himself was stored at Pokarr Gompa.