Haerldoun, also called "Hawkmaster", was a human man and a professional mercenary and adventurer. He was once the owner of Haerldouns Helms and Shields in the city of Wheloon in Cormyr.
Haerldoun was a professional mercenary warrior, and became a veteran of many battles. He was also a member of a chartered adventuring company.
In Wheloon in Cormyr, the company bought a store (formerly a haven for smugglers) as a sideline investment, which Haerldoun developed as a business importing helms and shields. It was called Haerldouns Helms and Shields. His niece, Albhaera Haerldoun, managed it under his supervision.There is a small discrepancy over whose business this was. The Waterdeep adventure module states that Haerldoun is a mercenary who started the helm and shield import business as a sideline, with Albhaera running it. Volos Guide to Cormyr later states that an adventuring company, of which Albhaera was a member, purchased the store as a sideline, and implies that Albhaera later started a business there. Merging these two accounts implies that Haerldoun was also a member of the adventuring band, and that Albhaera later took over the business.
Haerldoun was in Daggerdale battling orcs, bugbears, and trolls that were in service to the Zhentilar when he suffered a serious injury. He returned to Wheloon and rented a house not far from Helms and Shields, where he recuperated and watched over the business in the Year of Shadows, 1358 DR. There he was available to train other warriors.
Albhaera later took over from Haerldoun as proprietor of Haerldouns Helms and Shields by 1369 DR.The Volos Guide to Cormyr account of Albhaera states that her entire adventuring band was killed by a beholder. The merged account suggests that Haerldoun was killed also, though he could have retired or otherwise left beforehand.
Haerldoun was a veteran warrior. He was particularly skilled at scouting, command, tactics, and organization, and very wise. He was tireless and cautious against his foes. He was very familiar with the lands of the Dragon Reach.
Haerldoun was uncle to Albhaera Haerldoun. He doted on her, and if anyone harmed her he was likely to track them across Faerûn to take revenge.