Halatha Starnar was a renegade sorceress of Halruaa based in Phelzol in Semphar in the 13 century DR. She was the sister of Murbreistra Starnar.
Halatha, together with her sister Murbreistra, was a wicked mage who enjoyed breeding monsters, leading to the creation of many bizarre creatures and even mongrelmen. This practice attracted many enemies and thieves, particularly old foes from Halruaa. For impulsive young Halruaan mages looking to prove their might, flying skyships overhead at night and dropping in on ropes to try to raid their walled estate turned into popular recreational sport. When the Starnars used spells to teleport a number of crimson deaths into the gardens whenever they wished, this sport quickly died out.The phrasing "has since ended" in Prayers from the Faithful suggests the Starnar sisters were still alive as of the books setting date, 1368 DR.
The sisters seem to have had as a minion, willingly or unwilling, an unnamed dwarf who was never seen without two ravens perched on each shoulder whom he apparently communicated with and even obeyed.
Halatha and Murbreistra dwelled within a sprawling mansion of countless rooms and porches connected by breezeway passages and doors opening into the mossy-rock garden. The whole estate was surrounded by a high wall.
After the , an adventuring company known as the Talons of Timindar went to Khôltar in the Shaar, where they sold Yornars Trail Companion for 90,000 gp and a pair of slippers of spider climbing to a strange dwarf who didnt give them his name. This was likely the agent of the Starnar sisters.
During one of the earliest raids on the Starnar estate, in the , a local thief, Andaren Robyth, used the spell-battle as a cover to scale the wall and infiltrate the house. Amidst lightning bolts, fiery blasts, conjured jaws, and transforming spells, he got away with a sackful of magical items from the sisters, including the Companion. But he did not escape unscathed a partly polymorphed reptilian left arm made him an outcast.