Halbenet Soladonel was a cleric of Corellon Larethian and adventurer of Waterdeep.
The wise elf had pink skin and orange-brown hair. They mostly wore white-blue clothing and a circlet, most of which were themed around celestial objects.
Halbenet was enormously brave, but attributed this to the grace of Corellon rather to themself. They were a beacon of calm even on a chaotic battlefield, and were said to give pause to even their most enraged foes. Aside from helping those in need, Halbenet loved fine clothes, long walks, and a good mystery.
They memorialized all friends they had ever failed to save from danger, and used those memories to motivate themself to protect others.
Halbenet Soladonel wielded a club, or a mace, accompanied by a shield. Among magical weapons of theirs were a mace of disruption, a sun blade, a thunder mace, and St. Markovias Thighbone from the Domains of Dread.
They possessed several other enchanted items, such as their holy necklace, ring of long life, lunar crown, moons circlet, brooch of safety, talisman of the moon, and lenses of keen sight.
They owned the crown of Corellon, the powerful and legendary magical headwear they decorated with gemstones, each representing a fallen friend. A pair of magic boots, the Footsteps of Corellon, along with an opulent ring of shield other, were gifted to them by Laeral Silverhand, who subsequently also awarded them with the Caretakers Crown, the sword of bright blinding, and the seal of constancy.
Halbenet regarded as allies their adventuring companions Tommus Tallstep, Naomlen Girdaur, and Shevarith Kendia.
When Halbenet and their allies set out on their first journey, they found themselves assaulted by an orc ambush. The party was badly injured, but the novice cleric was able to heal them with a blaze of Corellons healing light. Most of the party returned home, but the eager cleric set out to continue adventuring and find new friends.
When Laeral Silverhand arrived at the Yawning Portal to find adventurers to clear out Sharpstone Keep, Halbenet was predictably one of the first to volunteer.