Hasicor Danali was a male human cleric of Oghma who ran the Leaves of Learning temple and library in Highmoon, Deepingdale, in the mid–14 century DR.
Balding, tall, and given to a rather severe appearance, Hasicor Danali rarely appeared outside the Leaves of Learning. His black robe of many sigils woven with mithral threads in the shape of many runes was ever-flapping in the wind.
Despite his serious outward appearance, the Learned Father was a jovial man at heart with an appreciation for those of good nature.
Hasicor was more than capable of defending his cherished Leaves of Learning and always made sure to carry a large assortment of spells thanks to his robe of many sigils. In addition, Hasicor had taken time to become well-versed in his elven longsword.
The High Atlar wore a magical black robe known as the robe of many sigils that was decorated with ornate thread. The thread was woven to create dozens of runes that could be used to store spells, much the same as the inscriptions on a magic scroll. Another item of use in his work at the Leaves of Learning was his ring of lore that allowed him to learn great legends, locate magical traps, and even speak with stones.
Not all his equipment was scholarly in nature. Hasicor would wear a magical chain shirt under his robes and carried an elven longsword that never tarnished and could even blind foes. His sword was a gift from Queen Amlaruil Moonflower of Evermeet for his preservation of religious tomes from Myth Drannor.
Danali also carried and practiced the longhorn flute.
Around 1372 DR, the usually reclusive Danali had struck up a romance with the Harper Jhenna Iliathor.
Jenelle Einhorn once served as his acolyte.
Born in 1313 DR, Hasicor spent much of his early years as an assistant librarian and learning the clerical life. By 1329 DR, at the age of 16, the young Hasicor Danali had grown so concerned with the difficulty of maintaining an ever-growing library and the fallibility of its librarians in the Leaves of Learning that he decided to begin creating the Index of Danali.
Over the years as Danali continued his work on the Index, numerous and undisputed visions from Oghma appeared to high-ranking members of the clergy, accelerating Danalis rise through the hierarchy. Soon, even Lord Theremen Ulath ensured that a detachment of the Tower Guard were resident to protect the temple.