Hastammer Orlim was a wizard and a member of the slavery and crime syndicate known as the Tarntar. He had a carefully cultivated reputation of being so powerful that he conversed with deities and gave them advice.
Hastammer was an elderly, disciplined man that had little sense of humor or patience for fools. He strategically promulgated his reputation as one who conferred with deities so that he commanded automatic respect from those in his business without having to earn it.
Sometime around the Year of the Turret, 1360 DR, Hastammer was in Voonlar, lodged at the Whistling Wizard inn with other members of his cabal, enjoying food and wine when Elminster, the Sage of Shadowdale, strode into the common room and started verbally tweaking the noses of the Tarntar. The Old Mage looked at Hastammer and inquired with a cheeky smile about the health of the gods. In the stunned silence that followed, Elminster sat on Hastammers lap and dropped the glamour, revealing that it was none other than the Simbul wearing Elminsters form. Hastammers associates, some of whom were powerful mages in their own right, immediately attacked the shapeshifting woman with deadly spells. She laughed off the attacks and set out to defend herself and the inn while six of her apprentices and her sister Storm Silverhand charged in and took on the Tarntar. Thus began the conflict known as the Battle at the Bar.
The Master-of-Moons took advantage of the Simbuls distraction when a portion of the bar exploded (taking a good part of the ceiling with it) and cast a spell upon himself, causing several arms to sprout from his body. Each arm was equipped with a dagger and he proceeded to stab all of them into the lady so recently on his lap. This just made her furious and he quailed before her wrath, sobbing and begging for mercy from the Witch-Queen who seemed unfazed by six dagger hilts protruding from her torso. Either Hastammer was convincing or the Simbul was feeling generous that day, because she reluctantly spared his life. He immediately turned on her again and triggered all the enchanted daggers to detonate, which tore her body open and brought her within moments of death. Storm quickly decapitated him as the Simbuls contingency spells teleported a sphere of healing liquid to her location. As she fell into the  sphere of restoration and was made whole again, Hastammer was on his way to meet a deity for real.
CategoryWizards
CategoryHumans
CategoryMembers of the Tarntar
CategoryInhabitants of Ordulin
CategoryInhabitants of Sembia
CategoryInhabitants of Interior Faerûn
CategoryInhabitants of Faerûn
CategoryInhabitants of Toril
CategoryInhabitants
CategoryInhabitants of the Eastern Heartlands
qiuvh0caz718ro05hgaefl8uraijbqq