Hedron Kerdos was the Captain of the Wicked Wench ship in the Ten-Towns, active in the early 14 century DR.
Hedron was a human male with gray hair and a strong leather armor-clad form. His weapon of choice was a polearm.
Firtha Kerdos was Hedrons aged mother, a woman of foul attitude who remained in Targos all through the Legion of the Chimera crisis. Despite her fearsome attitude, Hedron loved her "to death." His father was long gone by the early 14 century, and Hedron inherited Captainship of the Wicked Wench from the old man. Father Kerdos used to call his harpy wife Umberlees favorite daughter, and as such, Firtha Kerdos was the Wicked Wenchs namesake.
Captain Kerdoss crew included men named Screed and Eldgull.
thumb|The 469x469px
Hedron Kerdos sailed the waters of Maer Dualdon, the Shaengarne River, and through it – the Sea of Moving Ice and the Sea of Swords. When he stopped in Targos, Captain Kerdos frequented The Salty Dog Tavern just by the docks. In the , Hedrons vessel was among several ships that carried reinforcements and hired adventurers and mercenaries from the city of Luskan to Targos, to aid the citys defenses against an onslaught of the Legion of the Chimera. Many ships were set aflame and sank by goblin and orc troops of the Legion, but the Wicked Wench managed to pass the city of Bremen and reach Targos unharmed. Hedrons crew transported a group of mercenaries who would eventually become the heroes of Ten-Towns.
Hedron jokingly offered to take the heroes back to Luskan as they landed and witnessed disassembled wooden buildings along the docks. The Captain informed the group that the non-stone buildings were used to build the towns palisades, and many of the Targosan common folk fled the town in fear of the Legion. The town was filled with mercenaries and defenders, leaving the newly-arrived heroes little selection of lodgings. Hedron offered them sleeping quarters on the Wicked Wench as the ship was going to stay in the docks, hired by the Speaker of Targos to remain available in case the town fell and survivors needed evacuation.