Hiro Matsu was a samurai lord in Wa and the trusted inspector of the shogun in the late 1700s on the Wa Calendar.
Hiro would rather listen to others than talk much himself, yet when he did speak, his words were incisive. He was very honorable and impartial. Hiro greatly disliked corruption, plotting, and the amassing of petty power, and when he came across it he cracked down hard and struggled to stop its progress across Wa.
Hiro Matsu was a member of the personal staff of the shogun, Matasuuri Nagahide, and served as his inspector. In this capacity, he traveled the country.
While his duties were mostly ceremonial, Hiro kept up his combat training to a high degree.
His aide and secretary, as well as right-hand man, was Zukimoto Chikitada.
In the summer of , Hiro was sent by the shogun to attend the Ceremony of the Three Thousand Steps in Aru, ostensibly to honor the daimyo of Aru Province, Benju Matsutomo, and secretly observe how he handled matters and whether the province was running as smoothly as reported.
He arrived in town without warning only a day or two before the ceremony and with a company of twenty samurai of the shoguns personal guard, led by Zukimoto. Hiro himself rode in a palanquin carried by four bearers. Hiro stayed at the daimyos donjon in the Castle District. Finally, the Ceremony of the Three Thousand Steps went ahead, with Hiro, Benju, and their advisors and family in attendance. It was interrupted when the Yamaguchi ninja—who were meant to attack and disrupt the procession, so Eichiro Tanaka, mastermind behind them could step in with his forces and defeat them, thus discrediting Benju—instead surprised and betrayed Eichiro and his samurai, revealing the scheme to Hiro. Although surprised by all this, Hiro reviewed the evidence and convicted Eichiro on the spot. Desperate, Eichiro attacked Hiro Matsu, and was defeated by adventurers in Benjus service.
In his early 50s by Wa Year 1775, Hiro was still handsome. Though he normally spoke softly, when needed he took a commanding tone with ease.
Hiro possessed a katana and wakizashi, and a number of the small javelins called uchi-ne. He seldom wore armor.
He was proficient in horsemanship, calligraphy, etiquette, falconry, and poetry.