Hope was a dwarven cleric, captured and tortured by the cambion spawn of Mephistopheles, Raphael, sometime before the late 15 century DR.
Hope was a gold dwarf with a fair complexion, clean-shaven face, big brown eyes, and curly red hair gathered in a ponytail. Thorny tribal tattoos framed her face, encircling it from the forehead to the neck.
Hope was a kind, cheerful, and optimistic soul. She was driven mad by years of torture at the hands of Raphael and became prone to fits of mania, yet still retained her optimism and bright personality.
She possessed the abilities of a cleric who received magics from the life domain. Her healing magic was greatly empowered, and each such spell restored her own life force. Her powers over the House of Hope allowed Hope to project her image anywhere within its bounds and communicate with visitors. When freed, she could also revoke guest status from the visitors, and that magic functioned similarly to the banishment spell.
As a cleric, she wore a set of plate mail and carried an enchanted +2 quarterstaff and a simple shield into battle. Hope also wore an amulet of elemental torment and owned the gloves of soul catching.
thumb|Hopes projection and cries for help.|325x325px
Hope and her sister, Korrilla, grew up together in a loving and protective relationship. Korrilla stood up for her sister in front of the bullies and always saved the last piece of cake for Hope. Subsequently, Korrilla entered servitude to Raphael under unknown circumstances sometime before the . At some point, the cambion became aware of Hopes strange ability to control a sliver of reality later to be known as the House of Hope in Avernus. Hope was captured and imprisoned within the House of Hope by Raphael, who spent decades torturing her, physically and mentally, trying to break Hope enough shop she agrees to enter servitude. Meanwhile, Korrilla obediently recorded transcripts of Raphaels tortures and visitations of her sister. The tortures varied from Raphael forcing Hope to sing nursery rhymes she remembered from her childhood to leaving her alone with a nightmare-filled Omuan dreamcatcher that unleashed its horrors on the restrained dwarf.
In 1492 DR, a group of adventurers who had dealings with Raphael and opposed the Cult of the Absolute gained entrance to the House of Hope in Avernus. Hope projected herself to the visitors and begged to be rescued. She revealed that the artifact the adventurers were after – the Orphic Hammer, was the only weapon that would break her prison open. It was unknown if the adventurers managed to free Hope and gain her aid against Raphael, if she was left imprisoned, or even possibly killed in the process.