Horazak was the demon-blooded gray orc leader of a marauding group of humanoids residing in the Underdark and allied with the High Priestess of Lolth Azurna in the mid–14 century DR.
Horazak was a cruel, almost animalistic gray orc who managed to dominate his fellow orcs with sheer intelligence, resourcefulness, and lust for power. He was a master tracker and warrior who led a force of goblins, orcs, kobolds, trolls, and ogres, whom he whipped into a fearsome organization within Undermountain.
His vile animalistic side was shown excessively in his eating habits. His favorite delicacy were bones he often gnawed on them like an animal, cracked them open, and sucked the marrow out.
Horazak carried a +1 enchanted throwing axe and a masterfully crafted +1 chainmail.
Not much was known of Horazaks past before he and his band of marauders settled in an ancient dwarven prison in Undermountain that once belonged to Clan Melairkyn. There, the vicious orc leader allied with the High Priestess of Lolth, Azurna, who led the drow forces in Undermountain in 1370 DR. The drow were on a holy quest to find the Flame Sword of Lolth hidden in the mega-dungeon and the scattered pieces of a magical spider statue, used as the swords conduit of power. To uncover the spider fragments, hidden since ancient times, the drow built alliances with dark forces inside Undermountain. Horazak loved the respect he got from the High Priestess. Azurna gave him the highest compliment a follower of Lolth could give a non-drow. She felt Horazak was unlike others of his kin, almost a drow in his power and ambition. The Matron allowed Hozrak to trade with a tribe of kobolds, placed by the drow in the sewers of the upper levels of Undermountain as lookouts.
Horazaks main task was using slaves and weaker humanoids, like goblins and kobolds, to mine the tunnels underneath the ancient prison for gems and, more importantly, for the entrance to an ancient temple of Clangeddin Silverbeard where one of the spider pieces was hidden.
On Eleint 3 of 1370 DR, two of Horazaks slaves escaped, and furious with his lieutenant Kalmog, the chieftain placed the prison on a full lockdown and went into the mines in pursuit. A noblewoman from Waterdeep, Tryola Perrentine, and the dwarf Urkantor were soon recaptured. Matron Azurna demanded the dwarf to be delivered to her as a personal slave to satisfy her peculiar tastes, to which Horazak obliged. Thankfully, the adventurer sent by Khelben Arunsun to investigate the drow plot against Waterdeep freed the captured slaves and beat the marauders to the hidden spider piece.