Horustep III was the sixteenth pharaoh of Mulhorand, the nations pharaoh as of the Present Age, and the first mortal among that nations long line of god-kings.
Like all incarnations of Horus-Re, Horustep III had facial features that were suggestive of a hawk.
In comparison to the former pharaohs of Mulhorand, Horustep III was known to be rather demanding, domineering, and determined to exercise his power far more decisively.
Like incarnations, Horustep III had innate abilities far above that of the average human.
Horustep III was born in the year , Since a young age, he was best friends with his bodyguard Brathes.
He ascended to the throne of Mulhorand in the summer of 1357 DR at the age of 11, after the assassination of his father, Akonhorus II. Over time Anhur, the Mulhorandi god of war, would press the pharaoh to take on a more active role in the world. And his worshiper Brathes actively worked towards sealing the distance between the pharaoh and the Church of Anhur.
During the Time of Troubles, Horustep III was one of many mortal incarnations of Horus-Re that fell into a coma, as the god was attempting to regain some of his powers by absorbing the divine fragments held by their bodies.
Horustep III would go on to appoint a new vizier, Kalarzim, to help him in exercising influence over the daily rule of his people. He also became more paranoid, fearful that others may have discovered that he was no longer a lesser avatar of Horus-Re, including enemies within his own church just waiting to strike at him any moment. In an effort to try and maintain the impression that he was divine, Horustep III would frequently summon Horus-Res avatar, having it inhabit his body.
Following the Untheric god-king Gilgeams death at the hands of Tiamat, Horustep III realized that without the manifestations presence the border treaty between the god-kings of Mulhorand and Unther was null.
Horustep IIIs campaign would eventually culminate in Mulhorand occupying nearly half of Unther by 1372 DR, forcing neighboring nations to treat them with greater care.
As he grew older the pharaoh was increasingly influenced by the foreign mercenaries that worked for him, such as allowing women in the same professions as men in order to solve the nations then-shortage of workers, a change that was suggested by Kendera. Following that he began to consider restructuring Mulhorands inheritance laws to be more equitable.
Horustep IIIs reign came to an end around the , when the Spellplague caused widespread devastation in Mulhorand by altering the landscape.