Hrothgar Deepcarver was a dwarf from the Great Rift who was present in Innarlith in the mid–14 century DR. He was a friend of the Cormyrean engineer Ivar Devorast.
He was proficient in stone-cutting and could fight well with a hammer.
He couldnt swim. The stereotype that dwarves could easily drown in water were true for him.
He had a cousin named Vrengarl who was with him in Innarlith.
Ivar Devorast was an engineer from Cormyr who was impressed with Hrothgars work when he first met him at a construction site. Hrothgar and Devorast were friends for many years. Hrothgar was one of the first people to become aware of Devorasts plans to build a canal between the Lake of Steam and the Nagaflow. 
In 1361 DR, Hrothgar was working on the construction of Nagaflow Keep with his cousin Vrengarl. Ivar Devorast, the person initially in charge of the project, noticed his work and commended him for doing a good job in his stonecutting. One day during this construction, some boys that went to draw water from the Nagaflow river were attacked by giant frogs. Devorast and Hrothgar together ran to the river and fought the frogs. They succeeded in rescuing the boys and killing the monsters.
In 1362 DR, Hrothgar was part of Devorasts crew in constructing a new merchant ship for the Shou merchant Ran Ai Yu. The ship was attacked in drydock by massive demonic fish that had been transported to the Innarlith harbor by the clandestine Red Wizard Marek Rymüt after the Shou merchant had refused his offer to transport her and her crew back to Shou Lung with magical means. Hrothgar, Devorast, and Ran Ai Yu fought the fish and successfully killed them.
Hrothgar was living in a dilapidated basement in the first quarter of Innarlith with his cousin Vrengarl in 1364 DR. They got a job to help build a winery for Senator Inthelph at his Berrywilde estate outside of the city. Devorast visited them one time in their basement and when they realized he was completely financially broke, they invited him to join them in the project, which he did.
When Devorast was given charge to run the canal project by Ransar Osorkon, Hrothgar accompanied him and worked under him.  He fought alongside Devorast on several occasions when attempts were made to assassinate him during his time working on the canal. 
He continued working at the canal site after Devorast was dismissed from his post by the Senate of Innarlith. Devorast secretly returned to the canal site to work as a labourer and he met up with Hrothgar again. Hrothgar saw Devorast and Surero laying the smokepowder charges that Devorast would later detonate in 1374 DR to destroy the canal. 
He spoke in defence of the alchemist Surero when Ransar Pristoleph demanded an explanation as to why a magical portal had been created on the canal without his permission and blamed it on the senators who came to the site while Pristoleph was away from Innarlith. 
He was present with Devorast at the canal site when Devorast detonated the smokepowder that destroyed the canal in 1374 DR. Devorast ended up almost killing himself with the blasts and Hrothgar rescued him and brought him to safety. He and Devorast also rescued Phyrea from the site as well, who was badly injured by the explosions. He didnt understand why Devorast did it and he asked Devorast to promise him to never explain the reason why.
After Pristoleph defeated the senate faction in the power struggle that took place in Innarlith in 1374 DR, Hrothgar was present at the Palace of Many Spires when Pristoleph gave judgment to the conspirators. He was introduced like a foreign dignitary from the Great Rift, even though he was just a commoner, which left him surprised. Not knowing protocol, he simply waved his hand when they called out his name.