Hulgaz was an archdevil and duchess of the Nine Hells who hails from the stinking swamps of Minauros. The self-styled Tempter delighted in the corruption of mortals through the offering of powerful boons that brought weal and woe in equal measure.
Hulgaz appeared as a large, regal figure, but as befit a duchess from the Endless Bog, was always soaked, her matted hair tangled with her soggy clothes. Despite her beauty, her fiendish nature was betrayed by her monstrous features bestial claws, glossy black eyes, and a snake-like tail ending in a venomous stinger.
Hulgaz was a patient and witty conversationalist able to effortlessly ingratiate herself in any conversation through instinctive deduction of the most effective approach. She generally spoke calmly in a low voice, but she could go from lending a sympathetic ear to sorrows one moment to heartily laughing at even a poor joke the next. Her movements were graceful and purposeful, every shoulder shrug and finger wag a well-rehearsed ploy designed to lower her targets guard.
No matter what behavior she displayed however, this was a façade over her real, devilish nature, her apparent kindnesses strictly a means to her wicked end of soul corruption. Her only tell is her tail, which she cannot help whip back and forth with excitement upon speaking to an especially tantalizing target.
Should someone attract Hulgazs attention, she sees to it that they will be offered a boon meant to make them miserable (although even those who abstain from her schemes eventually suffer them). She might personally visit particularly pitiful souls, offering even greater "gifts" to them. Selfless heroes and true martyrs meanwhile pique her interest, for she loves the challenge of defiling such noble souls, responding to unwavering morality with redoubled efforts.
Hulgaz was a charmer in both the mundane and magical sense, able to use charm person at will, if not with greater ease. She also had the ability to sour the good feelings of her charmed victims, ending the enchantment while psychically injuring them. Twice per day each she could cast dispel magic and fog cloud, and teleport once per day. She could hover through the air, she possessed truesight, and she resisted acid and the cold.
The claws of Hulgaz were deadly, while her stinger s poison damaged the body while briefly bewitching the mind. She could also exhale a  cone of noxious, scorching-hot vapor that burned and intoxicated those caught within it.
On the rare occasion when her social graces fail, Hulgaz turns her natural weapons on her victims. She is determined to send her prey to the Nine Hells herself if they wont go willingly, launching into a frenzied assault with reckless abandon.
Hulgaz could bestow her infernal blessings, on willing Humanoids, which might take the form of various baubles. Beneficial and detrimental, a blessing and its consequences could be undone through a remove curse spell. Casting the Remove Curse spell on the subject of an infernal blessing ends the blessings effects, including its consequences. She might increase someones strength by turning them into a lycanthrope, bestow intelligence that sours old friends to the recipient, or plant riches seemingly taken from unsavory characters who want them back. Should she wish to emphasize her respect, she tailors her charms to suit individual aspirations.
The Tempter corrupted mortals souls primarily by offering them tantalizing but ruinous boons, doing so through an entourage of loyal succubi and incubi who searched the Material Plane for those susceptible to her gifts. In most situations, she first probes their virtue and values, using her servants to set up scenarios to see how they react (although they likely end with a reward being contrived for their course of action). Afterwards she will attempt to directly tempt them, casually offering assistance when they are in dire straits. Ultimately however she presents a final deal, and will not take no for an answer.