Huzza was a hill giant pirate captain active on the Sea of Fallen Stars as of 1359 DR.
At  tall, Huzza towered over his goblin crew. He was completely bald and potbellied, and he dressed in thick, foul-smelling, stain-covered skins.
Huzza had a simple mind that was driven by the base desire for food and gold.
With his powerful throwing arm, he could hurl both boulders and goblins up to  away.
Huzza was captain of a "goblin o war", a longship crewed primarily by goblins. Over his years of raiding, the ships treasure room accumulated thousands of gold and silver coins, as well as a number of gems, pieces of jewelry, and artworks. Huzza also kept three confiscated magic items belonging to the captured wizard Talerus in this trove, lest they be used against him.
On his person, Huzza wore a ring of protection that could change in size to fit its wearer. During raids, he wielded a giant log shield and a spiked club, and in lieu of a regular grappling hook he used an anchor tied to a hawser.
Huzza raided other ships by having his ship move in close enough that he could toss his goblin crew members into the riggings in order to cut them, slowing his target down significantly and opening it up to boarding action. In this process, a number of goblins would break their necks on the target ships hull or miss their target entirely and drown in the sea.
With the addition of a pair of margoyles to the crew, Huzza changed up his strategy, having them safely carry the goblins aboard target ships instead.
Although Huzzas goblin crew grew increasingly unhappy with his disregard for their lives, they felt unable to mutiny or desert for fear of simply being eaten. When goblin tossing was phased out in favor of a pair of margoyle carriers, morale among the crew saw significant improvement.
Prior to his life of piracy, Huzza lived in a valley near the Troll Mountains not far from the Dragon Reach coast, where he lorded over a local tribe of goblins who guarded his home and provided him with food.
When a band of human sailors aboard a longship made shore near Huzzas valley, the hill giant was alerted to their presence by his goblin underlings. As he approached to investigate, the seafarers panicked and started attacking Huzza, who eventually overpowered and devoured the entire crew. After a cursory investigation of the ship, Huzza found that the ship was large enough to accommodate himself, provided he could find crewmembers small enough to operate the oars and sail.
After sleeping on it for a night, Huzza returned to the longship for further investigation. He thought of the idea of using his valleys goblin tribe, and upon discovering a trove of gold in the back of the ship, he was set on taking to the seas in search of further treasure.
Huzza and his crew would spend the next several years raiding other ships across the Sea of Fallen Stars. Over time, more and more goblins were lost to their captains tactic of goblin tossing, only to be replenished by pressing other goblin tribes into service.
At some point in his career, during a fresh water run on an island, Huzza discovered an underground lair host to a family of six margoyles. As he stole the hatchlings away to the futile protestations of their parents, he came up with a plan to coerce the elder margoyles into becoming a part of his crew in exchange for the return of two of their four children. With the help of his crews goblin shaman, who wore a helm of comprehending languages and reading magic, he relayed these demands, which the margoyles grudgingly accepted.
Within the following couple of months, Huzzas crew saw another addition in the wizard Talerus. With the help of the goblin shaman as interpreter and advocate, Talerus successfully pled for his life, offering the hill giant captain magical services in exchange.