Gnome
Hyacinth was the gnomish guildmaster of the Guild of Watermen in the late-15 century DR.
Hyacinth constantly exuded a heavy floral scent, which he claimed was just a natural part of his fey nature expressing itself.
Hyacinth was a rather brash and hard-nosed individual during his time in the Guild of Watermen. Over time, retirement made him more complacent and mellow, though he was still hard to bargain with. He also had a finely trained sense of telling whenever someone was lying to him.
One evening in 1459 DR, a Masked Lord visited Hyacinth and promised him gold if he would arrange for four Watermen to visit a certain tavern that night. Said Watermen had previously done a job for the Masked Man, smuggling a couple chests on to a ship bound for Amn, but then later drunkenly bragged about it. Hyacinth took the Masked Lord up on his offer and that night the four Watermen ended up being stabbed in a bar fight. He kept silent about the incident and a month later he was getting paid more gold and was receiving support for a higher office within the guild for recruiting new Watermen that worked as assassins for the Masked Lord.
In 1474 DR, Hyacinth retired from his role as guildmaster. Five years later he began exploring more of his spiritual side and was studying to become a priest of Garl Glittergold.
In 1479 DR, on the night of Fleetswake, Hyacinth was to be honored with an award for his support of the Guild of Watermen’s health and safety fund. found their bodies mutilated within a ship wreckage in Mistshore. Each of them were inside of an enchanted torturers rack that bound their souls and prevented them from speaking on their own. 
The body of Hyacinth was found missing both of his arms and legs, which was reflected by his ghost when he and the other victims arose to confront the adventurers. After possessing one of them to speak, they managed to make him confess his sins and he spoke of the incident with the Masked Lord that had occurred twenty years prior. After they learned the identities of three shipping merchants that the trio had betrayed, the ghosts of all men departed.
The adventurer that Hyacinth had possessed to communicate with the group was left with a lasting reminder of the incident, as from then on flowers would wilt and die upon coming into physical contact with them.