Icasaracht was a white dragon that ruled over the Spine of the World, considered to be the last of the regions white dragon matron mothers. She lived up until late 12 century DR, when she was fatefully slain by a single warrior, and returned nearly 100 years later to claim her revenge upon the people of Icewind Dale.
Icasaracht hated humankind all of the "civilized" races for their continual encroachment upon the territory of dragonkind. Throughout her many years of existence, and even after her rebirth, she saw no sign that their kind would stop stealing the lands of others. She saw what happened to her kind as a tragedy that if not prevented, could not go unavenged.
She made her lair within the White Wyrm iceberg in the Sea of Moving Ice. It possessed two special wards, one that would preserve soulless bodies for her to inhabit and another that attracted her spirits return upon death.
250px|Icasarachts spirit unbound from her icy prison.
Icasaracht had at least some control over powerful magic. She utilized a soul gem as a type of phylactery that would house her soul in case of her death.
She also laid two eggs within her lair that hatched without accepting any form of soul within them. Rather, Icasarachts own soul would transfer into the soulless white dragons bodies that emerged from within.
Icasarachts mate attacked her when he learned of her scheme involving their brood. She was forced to slay him and left his remains within White Wyrm. She appeared to be genuinely heartbroken about his loss. Like the other ills that plagued her, Icasaracht seemed to blame his death on civilization that threatened the home of other white dragons.
A small group of sahuagins served Icasaracht within her lair.
Some time circa the late 12 century DR, Icasaracht entered into battle with the legendary warrior Aihonen at the edge of Lac Dinneshere. Aihonen slew the white dragon matron by plunging his sword into her breast, piercing her heart. Both Icasaracht and her killer were plunged into the icy waters of the lake. The sentience of the sword knew Icasarachts soul could escape her body and somehow prevented her from taking new form, in effect imprisoning her within Lac Dinneshere.
Nearly a century later, in the , Aihonens blade was recovered from its resting place within Icasarachts heart at the bottom of the lake. Her soul was freed from its imprisonment and return to the soul gem in her lair.
300px|With the death of Icasarachts spirit, centuries of hate were at long last put to rest.
Seeing the barbarian leader Wylfdene as a kindred spirit, and the plight his people faced at the hands of the Ten Towns, Icasaracht then willed her spirit to possess his body. Claiming he was the reincarnation of the barbarian shaman Jerrod, Icasaracht raised a great army to conquer Icewind Dale and destroy the settlements of the Ten Towns.
Eventually her spirit was separated from that of Wylfdene and she took form in the body of her white dragon offspring within her lair. Icasaracht was confronted within by a band of adventurers from Kuldahar, and destroyed once and for all.