Ilbryn Starym was an elf wizard of the Starym family during the mid–8 century DR.
Ilbryn Starym had, since the Fall of Myth Drannor, grown obsessed with the elimination of Elminster Aumar.
Ilbryn was slim and looked young and haughty. He wore a cloak of a dark color.
By , he had taken to wearing dark robes. He wore maroon robes in , and was handsome still. However, half his face was a mass of scars, which was hidden by a spell. The scarring stretched to his armpit and all the way to his knee.
He could ride a very fast ghostly horse, which was possibly the phantom steed spell. He employed at least one shielding spell. Another spell of his allowed him to conceal his facial features.
He suffered extensive bodily trauma in Galadorna during , which led to the loss of a leg and its replacement with a metal prosthetic, as well as chronic pain issues. The elf could employ spells without properly mastering them, including one spell he employed to keep himself alive after suffering tremendous internal damage. However, that spell would be ruined if he attempted to restore himself to wholeness. Another spell of his made his horse stay still.
One of his spells created a field of nigh-impenetrable darkness over an area, another one burst to attack more than one target, and one caused flesh to melt, but could be delivered through a dagger.
He had a spell that multiplied a blade into three seeking missiles, almost certainly threesteel. Another of his spells cloaked him in a defensive sphere, while still allowing him to attack out of a pinhole in the barrier. He could also cast a flight spell, almost certainly fly, and also magic missile, clairaudience, and a guidance spell that allowed him to find buildings, likely similar to locate object.
During , Ilbryn Starym carried a staff of live wood set with precious gems, at least two of which were green. The staff could be let go to float on its own, trailed black flames when moving on its own, and sometimes lightning. He also carried three wands at his hip. Ilbrym claimed the items he was carrying were long venerated in his family.
After , Ilbryn also carried a scrap of red cloth once of the Court Mage of Galadorna, then Elminster Aumar, which he snatched during the latters spellbattle with the sorceress Dasumia, then-queen of Galadorna. He also took to carrying a number of weapons, to make his spells more of a surprise.
He had a low opinion of the Moondark family, and believed himself to be the last of his line.
At some point after the fall of Myth Drannor, Ilbryn Starym believed that all of the hunting lodges of the Starym family had been destroyed leaving him the only survivor. He then settled on the destruction of Elminster Aumar as his overarching goal, with a secondary consideration that he might afterwards sire a new House Starym himself if he succeeded.
In spring of the , while tracking down Elminster, he entered Moonshorn Tower, where after being quite rude to the guardian, Mardasper Oblyndrin, he discovered Elminsters name on the logbook. Reluctantly, the guardian told him where his hated foe had gone Ilbryn managed to leave without a fight, as the guardian was too meek. Riding in pursuit, he passed the sages Tabarast and Beldrune, who were in pursuit of Elminster too. He arrived at the Castle of the Lady not long after Dasumia took Elminster there.
As of , Ilbryn Starym had continued to shadow Elminster during the length of his stay in the Castle of the Lady, though he was never able to get in the castle himself. Upon the coronation of the sorceress Dasumia as queen of Galadorna, Ilbryn learned from the sages Tabarast and Beldrune that Elminster and she had gone elsewhere. He physically pressed one of them for details the sages responded violently, hurling him away with a strange spell that incapacitated him. The sages shared the details with him afterwards.
During the last day of Dasumias reign as queen of Galadorna, Ilbryn followed her to the castle from the Goblet of Shadows tavern. He suffered severe injuries, which required extensive spellcasting and patching to repair.
Ilbryn Starym followed Elminster to Westgate in the , where he took a room at the Stars and Sword, a local inn, while hoping to learn of his whereabouts. Afterwards, he rode for six days into Ripplestones, where he learned Elminster had gone into the Dead Place, and headed there immediately. While riding across the Dead Place, he stumbled upon a band of adventurers, who attacked him, killing his horse. He successfully slew them all, and then took a sword from them. Afterwards, he came across a group of Sharran Dreadspells, led by Dark Brother Elryn. He slew their guide, and then fled, using a spell to divine their target location, which he reasoned was most likely Elminsters target too.
He prepared himself to ambush his most hated foe in the throne chamber within the depths of Karsus Keep, delaying his attack because of the unpredictable, powerful magic circles all across the room. Ilbryn later emerged from hiding to stab Saeraede Lyonora after she managed to capture and weaken Elminster. He was then slain from her death throes, which unleashed an explosion of such force that it annihilated his body completely.