Imvaernarhro, also known as Inferno of the Star Mounts|Jesper Ejsing or simply Inferno, was an ancient red wyrm that laired within the Star Mounts, the range of peaks in the High Forest of the North. He was famous for his mastery of fire magic and a massive treasure hoard, legends about which have spread far across the North.
Imvaernarho took delight in observing events of the world as they unfolded around him, interpreting the goings-on as some manner of play or performance created for his own personal amusement. While other dragons may be domineering or condescending in their pride, the wyrm colloquially known as Inferno acted more like a noble lord that was entitled to entertainment at the expense of others. He thoroughly enjoyed manipulating lesser beings into carrying out his wills, especially when carrying out attacks against others.
thumb|right|150px|Imvaernarho peeking his head in through a window for a glance at an arcane tome.
Imvaernarho was a solitary being that did not enter into competition or much interaction at all with other dragons.
The great red wyrm was seldom observed hunting within his domain he possessed a portal that linked a cave within mount Angaroth to a vast field full of beast herds on a continent far from Faerûn. Imvaernarho could hunt and feed at will, with no interference from lesser beings.
Inferno maintained several hoards of treasure located in various caves throughout the peaks of the Star Mounts, the value of which has been measured by Elminster to be worth at least "a dozen million" gp.
While he viewed the returned Netherese enclave of Thultanthar as something of a threat, Imvaernarho was just as interested in its arcane secrets as he was sure that its citizens required inglorious deaths.
Tales surrounding the great wyrm have been spread all throughout the Western Heartlands and the Sword Coast North. 
During the Rage of Dragons in the , Imvaenarho was abruptly awaken from a long period of sleep and sent into a frenzied rampage. He destroyed the entirety of the Starshadow Vale, slaying the dwarven lord Tordath Ironfist and his followers during their stay in Starshadow Tower.
Interestingly enough he was seemingly unaffected by the flight of dragons that broke out in the , or the rage caused by the destruction of the dracorage mythal some 17 years later. It was speculated that he had developed some manner of magical immunity to their effects.
Although he has typically kept himself isolated from other, Inferno took a significant interest in the Silver Marches around the , with a particular curiosity of the influence of Thay and their namesake enclaves. Using scrying magic and long-distance communications, Imvaernarho began issuing orders to adventuring companions and even some outlaw groups to carry out his bidding in that region.