Ingrar Welven was a boy pirate who was a loyal crew-member of the Kissing Shark helmed by Blackfingers Ralingor in the Utter East in the late 14 century DR and went on to become the new Chosen of Tyr.
Ingrar was hungry for fortune and adventure. Ingrar was proud of his country.
Ingrar was a kind of mascot for the other Sharkers. He was good friend of Nargin Olnblade, who taught him many lessons. 
Sometime in the , the Kissing Shark was destroyed by a blast of smoke powder. Blackfingers Ralingor perished and only seven of the Sharkers survived Ingrar was one of them. Together the Sharkers saved one chest off the Kissing Shark. Later, the group found themselves in the tavern of Donders Dancing Masques in Tharkar. There, a mysterious benefactor named Belmer Droon rescued them from one of the frequent bar fights, and helped the Sharkers avoid the brutal law enforcement of the Daggers of Tharkar.
Once the Sharkers and their savior reached the safety of the Ankle Bells tavern, Belmer revealed his agenda for generous pay, he wanted to hire a group of mercenaries to perform a mission in the capital of Doegan. After the pirates agreed, Belmer had them sign writs and they embarked on a mission to find and assassinate a noblewoman, Eidola of Neverwinter. Sharessa Stagwood explained to Ingrar the meaning of the contacts that Belmer had them sign.
Under the cover of night, in secrecy, the group boarded the ship Morning Bird. Soon after the ship left the port, it came under an attack from an unknown black ship that bombarded the Bird with fire pot missiles and terrifying bone balls that melted away in the flames, revealing dancing floating armed skeletons. The Sharkers and their benefactors managed to fight off the undead and evaded the black ship with the aid of Belmers box of mists and a prayer-token of Umberlee. The box transported the ship into a different part of the sea away from the pursuit, but the prayer token of the fickle goddess summoned her servants on board a ghost ship. The ship spawned the dreaded sea zombies and the crew of Morning Bird had to appease Umberlee by tossing their valuables overboard.
During the short respite, the suspicious employer mixed an exotic drug called yulchass powder in with the crews food. The powder had a side effect of making its imbibers truthful. The ship followed them, somehow tracking them. After a long search, the Sharkers and  Belmer found a magical scrying device hidden on the bottom on the Sharkers chest.
Soon after, the mysterious black ship, now identified as the Black Dragon, caught up with the Morning Bird. The pursuing captain was the infamous Orim Redbeard, the pirate responsible for the death of Blackfingers Ralingor. Kurthe Lornars short temper and rabid devotion to his old captain pushed him to attempt to attack Redbeard. But Belmer, expecting this, hit the tall Konigheimer over the head, knocking him out, despite Ingrar expecting their employer reveal some sort of magical weapon of doom. Orim Redbeard realized that he pursued the wrong ship, and left the Sharkers in peace. Meanwhile, Kurthe Lornar came back to his senses, fuming with rage over what he perceived as betrayal. He attacked the benefactor in blind rage, while his fellow Sharkers stayed out of combat. Belmer showed uncanny skill and finesse in avoiding Kurthes brutal attacks. Giving the hotheaded pirates plenty of warnings, Belmer continued leaving cuts and slices on the Konigheimers body. The pirate never stood down and died soaked in his own blood with Belmers dagger in his neck.
Ingrar survived the sinking of the Morning Bird alongside the Sharkers a and a big group of Jander Turbalts sailors. Surviving the dangers of open waters, they soon encountered the creatures that made Doegan infamously deadly—the "fiends". Many sailors died during the fighting in Doegans forest. Ingrar believed that the fiends couldnt leave the woods but he was wrong—a bone devil targeted the boy pirate and a branch hit Ingrars head, ripping out his eyes and maiming his face. Sharessa, Jolloth Burbuck, and one of the sailors bandaged the boy and soon after Ingrar fell asleep. He was carried by Jolloth during the march. The bone devil attacked the Sharkers again and tried to kill Ingrar again but was at last killed by Sharessa.
After arriving in Eldrinpar in Doegan, Ingrar, despite being blinded, fully recovered. In the city the mercenaries led by Artemis Entreri were confronted by the paladins from Waterdeep led by Miltiades. One group was looking to rescue Eidola, the abducted bride of Piergeiron the Paladinson, and the other group to assassinate her. So they started to fight in front of Eldrinpars Fountain of the Kraken and in battle Ingrar fought as well as he could until his fellow pirate Jolloth "Anvil" Burbuck was killed. After the fight ended, Kastonoph Nesher joined the mercenaries.
Later, during the fiends invasion of the city, Noph and the mercenaries led by Enteri decided to enter the dungeons of King Aetheric IIIs palace. There Ingrar sensed the bloodforge and Entreri and Sharessa both insisted on recovering the artifact, before the fiends could seize it.
There the mercenaries lost Noph but met the paladins again. During the ensuing fight, they saw at a distance Eidola stopping the skirmish. Then Enteri ordered Belgin Dree and Nargin to follow her, helped by paladins Miltiades and Jacob, while Ingrar, Entreri and Shar together with paladins Trandon, Kern Desanea went in search of Noph. Ingrar asked Enteri why he was chosen for this particular mission and the assassin said he needed the boys power to sense the bloodforge.
Using his new power, Ingrar tried to figure where Eidola had taken Noph inside the dungeon. So they found Kastonoph Nesher but the boy pirate sensed a secret in  Trandon.
Afterward, thanks to Ingrar, they found the bloodforge at the same moment cultists from the Fallen Temple were stealing it. However, they were defeated by the cultists and so Trandon finally unveiled himself as one of the War Wizards of Cormyr. After they discussed their next move, Ingrar said that his destiny was linked to the artifact and he needed to recover it.
Soon after, Ingrar sensed that the Mar chancellor of Doegan, Ikavi Garkim, was following them with his guards and they stopped to speak with him. Offering a temporary alliance, the politician and aide of the Emperor joined them and they entered the Fallen Temple to stop the devious plot of the cultists to summon their deity Ysdar and Entreri and Sharessa attempted to claim the bloodforge as their own but were stopped by now-monstrous Aetheric III. In the process, the deity Tyr revealed himself through his new Chosen—Ingrar Welven. The deity manifested himself through ominous red skies and collapsed part of the temples dome. Disgusted by the cult that claimed to be his worshipers, Tyr incinerated many and forced the survivors to flee. Before disappearing, Tyr tasked Ingrar, proclaimed to be the Voice of Tyr, with rebuilding his church in the Utter East. After the mad Mage-Emperor was also defeated, Garkim and Ingrar took control of the bloodforge in order to defeat the fiends and save the city.
Ingrar was made blind by the fiends. After using his other senses, he gained some kind of power of sensing beneath the surface of things even sensing danger around him.