Ishistu was a living animal idol once worshiped as a god by the non-Enlightened people of the city of Moradask, in what would later be known as the Haunted Lands.
This living idol was constructed entirely of ivory and had large diamond eyes that were each worth around 10,000 gold pieces. It depicted a hairless rat with albinism. Inscribed upon it were words talking about the glory of perfection that was the state of being hairless.
Like all living idols, the powers of Ishistu were proportional to the amount of worshipers they had. At the height of its power, the living idol was immune to most spells and could only be harmed by weapons with a +3 enchantment.
Circa 800 DR,According to the source, the reign of the first Grand Caliph ended "more than five centuries past", but began some "six centuries ago", before the current time of the setting. the people of Moradask gradually grew so corrupt that they no longer cared to work to support their own decadence. At this, Ishistu and the other living idols of the city whispered to them that their neighbors were undeserving of what they had and that they should steal from them.
The next year, the First Grand Caliph of Zakhara and his armies retaliated against the plunderers, harrying them back to Moradask and plundering it themselves, stripping the temple of Ishistu and those of the other living idols of their valuables. During this short occupation by the Grand Caliphs army, the inhabitants of Moradask hid their living idols underground to ensure their safety and barricaded themselves in the farthest reaches of the citys underground catacombs, taking some of the temple valuables with them and ultimately never returning to their legendary idols.
By the 14 century DR, many of Ishistus altars and smaller stone idols remained in the city. Around this time Saib al-Banu and his devoted followers, the Shorn, stumbled upon the ruins of Moradask after many years of trekking across the Haunted Lands in search of a city that Saib had allegedly been told about by the Gods of the Pantheon.
Translating the inscriptions upon Ishistu, the two men came to find that its tenants closely matched their own and became compelled to not only protect the living idol, but to worship it. The idol spoke to Saib in particular, promising to protect him and the Shorn from the monsters that inhabited Moradasks catacombs if they would adorn its altar with their hair. Tentatively they agreed and over time the beliefs of the Shorn became warped-&mdashno longer were they worshipers of the Gods of the Pantheon, only Ishistu. Eventually the idol rewarded Saib for his efforts by turning him into a wererat, though one incapable of spreading his form of lycanthropy to others.
Around 1367 DR, the janni Sheikh Ardasir al-Darah hired a group of adventurers to retrieve for him the missing fragments of the ancient Peacock Throne of Moradask. This quest would come to bring the adventurers into the Temple of Ishistu and eventually confront the idol itself, who would try to charm them into worshiping it. By this time the living idol had grown tremendously powerful from the Shorns worship and polymorphed into a giant albino rat to confront the adventurers. After much fighting, they managed to destroy Ishistu, driving its head-priest Saib to kill themselves.