Sir Isteval was a paladin of Lathander and veteran dragon slayer from Cormyr in the 15 century DR.
He was a noble-hearted, retired paladin who gathered adventurers to his cause for a brighter future for Faerûn.
Isteval valued honor and tradition greatly.
When in public, Isteval was rarely seen without his +1 plate mail and his +1 greatsword. Due to his leg-injury, he used a walking stick for additional support.
In his later years, Isteval used a cane made from a bone of the dragon that dealt him his leg wound.
Isteval additionally owned a beautiful, grey mare named Ileleste, which was usually stabled at the ducal palace in Daggerford, when Isteval didnt have need of her.
As a paladin, Isteval was imbued with divinely granted powers making him immune to disease and capable of sensing the presence of outsiders close by. Isteval additionally emitted an invisible aura capable of imbuing his allies with courage, as well as partially shielding them from harm.
Despite his injured leg, Sir Isteval was a skilled wielder of the greatsword, and was capable of holding his own against vampires, gargoyles, a behir, and several kinds of baatezu.
Sir Isteval was also a capable divine spellcaster, mainly focusing on having an arsenal of healing and combat-enhancing spells prepared, in addition to being able to speak with the dead. 
Isteval had several allies scattered across the Sword Coast, and actively recruited adventurers to his cause. During his retirement, Isteval often allied himself with Lord Darfin Floshin when acting in defense of the Daggerford region.
A rakshasa named Nadir sought revenge against Isteval for him having slain it years earlier in Suzail.
Istevals place of birth was the Cormyrian town of Eveningstar. He joined the Purple Dragons while still a teenager, and was noted for his impeccable character. His desire to bring justice and defend his country brought him into conflict with many enemies in various locations. He fought against the vicious orc bands of the Stonelands, dispatched Zhentarim agents along the western frontier, and made a valiant stand in Thunder Gap against Sembian raiders.
Later, he led at least three groups of adventurers on missions in an effort to bring justice and goodness, and spread Cormyrs influence. The first company of adventurers went to the Western Heartlands. The second followed Isteval to battle corruption around the Moonsea.
Around 1471 DR into the Vilhon Wilds and the Winterwood. During this time, Isteval and the rest of his company entered the lair of the dracolich, Dretchroyaster, to retrieve the Diamond Staff of Chomylla. Here, Isteval battled a black dragon within the adjacent caverns. Some time later, Isteval wounded his leg in battle against a green dragon. The wound resisted magical healing and he walked with a cane afterwards.
Sir Isteval lived out his retirement in Daggerford until he felt that others needed to follow the shining example that was his homeland, so he gathered individuals with the same ideals and set forth to combat evil and chaos once more.
He attended the Council of Waterdeep in the 1480s DR, as Daggerfords unofficial representative for the Lords Alliance. Isteval was however additionally tasked with spying on the council on behalf of Cormyr, a fact he respected his fellow representatives too much to hide from them, resulting in him almost being banished from the council, if not for the intervention of a group of heroes leading the efforts against the Cult of the Dragon. As the council progressed, Isteval shared similar values as Ontharr Frume of the Order of the Gauntlet.
It was around the era of the Second Sundering that Isteval actively proclaimed his devotion to the newly returned Lathander.