Lord Ithvar Wordkiller was a one-eyed wizard, sorcerer, and businessman in Skullport in the mid-to-late 14 century DR.
Ithvars ruin was his temper, and he was too ready to fight without thinking for a second. That said, he was not a fool, and was a brilliant strategist. He was also very ambitious, deceitful, and did not trust other wizards. He loved the chaos of Skullport.
Ithvar favored lethal weapons and magic items. He possessed a number of wands and rods, weilded a staff of power, wore a ring of spell turning, and kept on hand a set of iron bands of Bilarro.
Ithvar was one of four co-owners of Hired Horrors, a business which bred deepspawn in Undermountain and sold them all across Toril.
He actvely worked to undermine Aurin the Generous, the head of Hired Horrors, with the aim of usurping control of the company. He did not trust his other business associates, knowing that Chantos Graybeard was too close to Aurin that that Ysele the Cat would betray him in the future, although they collaborated on efforts to drive Aurin and Chatos apart.
Born into power and privilege as the son of an illustrious family of Cormyr, Ithvar from a young age showed an incredible talent in magic. Tutored by the best teacher available, he soon become a great mage and joined the War Wizards of Cormyr. However, thanks to his hot blood, he killed a superior during a dispute. His familys connections got him out of jail or a death penalty, but it was suggested that it would be better if he left the country.
Ithvar wandered for a time until he settled in Skullport. There, he joined the also recently arrived Aurin, and formed the Hired Horrors business with Chantos Graybeard and Ysele the Cat. Being the major investor, Ithvar believed he should be the boss but Aurin, whod captured the deepspawn, contested this. They decided to settle the matter with a magical duel. Not only did Ithvar lose despite his efforts to cheat, but Aurin saved his life (and earned his moniker "the Generous" in the process). From that moment, Ithvar waited for the right time to get revenge. By 1370 DR, hed recently allied with Ysele in his plot, but Chantos resisted all suggestions. The two of them secretly acquired a sphere of annihilation from within Undermountain, and while they shared possession of it, Ithvar worked to convince Ysele to surrender or sell her claim to him