Doom of the Desert
Iymrith, also known as the Doom of the Desert and the Dragon of the Statues, was a powerful blue dragon sorcerer
Iymrith was manipulative and cunning, as shown by her ongoing deception of Serissa, daughter of the storm giant King Hekaton, for an extended duration of time. 
Like many dragons, she was shown to be prideful and arrogant, unwilling to flee in battle or abandon her treasure to those that may lessen her wealth. As she aged, Iymrith grew to become less ferocious and more whimsical and thoughtful with her actions. 
Iymrith was an extremely talented shapechanger, and could readily transform herself into her natural draconic form, or that of a massive storm giant. 
She spent centuries studying magic, and had a repertoire of rare and powerful spells such as flame sands, well-suited for a blue dragon in the desert, and force burn, one that was specifically created to harm the phaerimm. Using a unique form of the stone shape spell, Iymrith could transform stone into living gargoyles, that continually grew her throng of stone-formed minions.
Iymriths hoard included a massive pile of gold coins that was protected by four air elementals, each of which encompassed some thousands of coins within them as they formed. Her most valuable treasures, worth an amount totaling over 35,000 gp, were stashed within five sarcophagi buried  beneath the floor of her lair. A sixth sarcophagus held the remains of the Netherese mummy lord Shaxan Kazraat.
Iymrith tirelessly explored all ancient Netherese ruins in the Ascore area in search of magic. While in her lair, she was always protected by her scores of humanoid-gargoyle servants, She experimented often with new and dangerous spells, sometimes with catastrophic results. Her research focused on the transference of her sentience from draconic body to body, in order to obtain a transcendent state of existence as a disembodied, mist-like flying spirit.
Beyond her primary lair in Anauroch, she was known to keep maintain several caverns in the Greypeak and Sunset Mountain ranges to the west. despite it falling under the lair of the powerful red dragon Klauth.
In her later years, Iymrith took to rearing infant purple worms in a nursery within her lair.
Iymrith had two adult offspring, Anaxaster and Chezzaran, each of whom laired in ruined Ascore. She expected greatness from her children, and was happy to lend them aid and resources to achieve it. 
She was venerated by several groups that regularly made offerings to her honor, including the serpentfolk of Najara circa the late 14 century DR,
thumb|right|250px|Iymrith in her storm giant form.
The first recorded appearance of Iymrith occurred in the , when she destroyed a Bedine camp. Soon after, she challenged an old dragon in the High Moor but was defeated. Iymrith crashed into some Netherese ruins in the Forgotten Forest. During her recuperation Iymrith somehow gained some powerful magical abilities beyond most blue dragons. The most convincing theory was that she had become the servant of an archmage whod magically altered her body. Together, Iymrith and a skeletal figure raided villages and caravans in the Delimbiyr Vale and the Sword Coast.
At some point in her past, Iymrith explored the ruins of Anorath in Anauroch when she first met the phaerimm and barely escaped with her life. Reeling from the attack, she started conducting experiments with some ancient and very rare spells she had discovered. When she was attacked by an adventuring company, Iymrith slew each member of the group, and used their bodies and started creating gargoyle servants. Armed with a small army, Iymrith continued her exploration into the ruins and discovered even more lost magic. The Doom of the Desert returned to the phaerimm she encountered before, destroyed the aberrant beings with her force burn spell and claimed the ruins as her new lair.
Some time around the , Iymrith enslaved the adventurers of the Company of the Flame Spider, treating them as her pets.
Like many of her kind, Iymrith was not immune from the effects of the Rage of Dragons that overcame dragon-kind about a decade later. Enraged by the appearance of the King-Killer Star, Iymrith flew north from her lair to Hartsvale in the Ice Spires and massacred three clans of giants.
At the time of the shattering of the ordning, some time after the , Iymrith disguised herself as a giant and infiltrated the Maelstrom citadel of the storm giants, becoming something of a mother figure for the princesses Mirran, Nym, and Serissa. Secretly, Iymrith encouraged Mirran and Nym to plot against her true mother Neri, who appeared to prefer Serissa over her sisters. Iymrith sought to acquire the Wyrmskull Throne for herself and her treasure hoard.
Using the princesses as pawns and convincing them to ally with the Kraken Society, Iymrith grew to great prominence within Maelstrom. She served as an advisor to princess-regent Serissa with the goal of starting a new war between giants and the small folk, placing blame for Queen Neris death on the Lords Alliance. Along with her Kraken Society "allies", who operated with the permission of the ancient patron Slarkrethel, Iymrith orchestrated the abduction of King Hekaton aboard the Morkorth in the Trackless Sea, to ensure she had a failsafe in case her plan was thwarted.
thumb|right|350px|Iymrith making a final stand in her lair.
In order to glean more information about the activities of giants that may act against her, Iymrith went to the Eye of the All-Father shrine in the Spine of the World. She was met by the frost giant hero of Waterdeep Harshnag, who fought off the blue wyrm as his small-folk allies made their way to safety. While it was unclear how the confrontation exactly played out, Iymrith returned to her lair in Anauroch. 
To get their revenge for all the chaos Iymrith had caused, the monarch of the Storm Giants ventured across the desert to Iymriths domain, protected by their four bodyguards Nimir, Orlekto, Shaldoor, and Vaasha, to confront the villainous dragon. While it was unknown if they traveled alongside one another, the same adventurers that had thwarted Iymrith twice before were also present.