Jacob was a warrior devotee of Tyr who was a part of the rescue team sent to the Utter East to rescue Piergeiron the Paladinsons bride circa 1371 DR
Jacob had blond curly hair.
Jacob was charming and charismatic, often flirty. He loved the thrill of adventure, especially when questing for the glory of Tyr.
Unlike most other followers of Tyr, Jacob was proficient with and carried a two-handed sword.
Prior to the rescue mission, Jacob was acquainted with Aleena Paladinstar and her father Piergeiron the Paladinson, often monster hunting in the Western Heartlands with the Open Lord of Waterdeep.
Jacob was one of the paladins from Phlan attending the wedding ceremony for the Open Lord of Waterdeep.
The wedding was a disaster that resulted in the brides abduction. Jacob was a part of the rescue team assembled by Khelben Arunsun to travel through Undermountain to reach the only portal to the Utter East that was in the vicinity of the city. Blackstaff was unable to teleport the paladins to the portal directly because of Kerns anti-magical abilities, leaving the party with only one choice—traveling through Skullport.
When the paladins reached Skullport, the group was tasked with aiding zombies by the mysterious Skulls of Skullport in penance for destroying one of the watchers. The group split apart in search of undead to aid. Jacob was looking for a zombie to aid along the Skullports pier, hoping to quickly help with moving crates. Once he came across a group of undead unloading crates, Jacob quickly volunteered to help with the job. The young warrior felt pity towards the zombies and regretted he did not possess the abilities of a paladin to free the cursed creatures. Caught in daydreaming of his glorious future among the Hammers of Tyr or Knights of the Holy Sword, Jacob was ambushed by one of the zombies who turned out to be a doppelganger. The shapeshifter overpowered the surprised warrior shoving its liquified hand in Jacobs mouth making it ooze down his throat... 
Unknown to the paladins, Jacob was replaced by a doppelganger, who continued onto the rescue mission in his place.