| refs5e         = 
Jekk Ironfist was a shield dwarf adventurer and acquaintance of Sir Isteval in Daggerford circa 1486 DR.
Jekk was a burly dwarf with bushy auburn-brown hair and a well-trimmed beard.
He frequently wore an earring or two, and favored elaborate ornamentation in his weapons, armor, and accessoriess.
Jekk was amiable toward other adventurers and an especially forthcoming conversationalist when offered beer. He liked to indulge in both drink and fine food before embarking on an adventure, such as an evening imbibing at the Lady Luck Tavern followed by breakfast at Daggerfords upscale River Shining Tavern.
He was wary of Red Wizards, even those among the Thayan Resurrection.
Jekk wielded a silvered +1 greataxe into battle and wore elaborately crafted studded leather armour made from dragon leather, with green and gold accents, as well as set with a few green gems.
Though not magical, Jekk also wore a large girdle with a gold-and-silver buckle shaped like a dwarven face and set with green spinels for eyes.
Jekk additionally owned a plaster copy of a holy relic dedicated to the dwarven deity Gorm Gulthyn, known as the Face of Gorm, but more commonly nicknamed the "Delimbiyr Bloke," or simply the "Bloke," which he commissioned from the sculptor Alven Gissen.
Jekk maintained a friendship with Sir Isteval beyond their time together with the Company of the Sunlit Sea. He stayed at Istevals home when spending time in Daggerford and when the original Bloke went missing, Duke Maldwyn suspected the two were partners in crime.
Jekk was born to Kellack "Killer" Ironfist, a slave-gladiator in the Hillsfar arenas, and in time he followed in his fathers stead. He was saved from the arena by Isteval and the Company of the Sunlit Sea but it was too late for Kellack.
Freed, Jekk joined the Company and took part in their ill-fated attempt to retrieve the Diamond Staff of Chomylla from the lair of Dretchroyaster. During a period of self-reflection after the group disbanded, Jekk discovered that Ironfist was the name of a true dwarven clan, not just a moniker. He went to Daggerford, where his clans ancestral home was situated. There, he learned more of the clans history and its ties to Firehammer Hold and the House of Stone.
In the , Jekk led a small expedition to Firehammer Hold seeking priests who could tell him more about the Face of Gorm based on his replica. Despite being chained up in Nalifarns study and tortured to within an inch of his life, Jekk maintained awareness enough to learn the duergar were working in service of Thegger Grynn of the Red Wizards of Thay at Bloodgate Keep. Adventurers recruited by Isteval saved Jekk, and he was soon ready to get some payback on the Red Wizards menacing the Sword Coast.
A few tendays later, Jekk and the other former members of the Company of the Sunlit Sea helped organize an assault on the Bloodgate Nexus beneath Bloodgate Keep. There, he focused on coordinating the remaining forces and assisting each squad as necessary.