| alignment5e    = Neutral evil
Jeny Greenteeth was a green hag in the Quivering Forest near Phlan in the 1480s DR.
Jeny was a personification of malice and hate. She hated humanity with all her being and acted to make human lives miserable. Jeny was however also a great actress, acting like a sweet and loving grandmother.
Jeny lived in the Quivering forest for a long time. She was responsible for the pact between the dark fey of the forest and Cvaal Daoran that saved Phlan from the shadovars ire in 1380 DR.
When Halvin Graingle went to make a new bargain, the negotiations did not go well and she killed him.
Enraged by the intermission and believing the pact totally broken, Jeny ambushed five other villagers who went to search for Halvin. She killed two of them, captured two others, and sent Rerk back with horrible injuries after torturing him. After Jeny was confronted by an adventuring party hired to find the missing people, she was at last defeated in combat.
A few years later, Jeny intercepted an old Gur named Ozzcar Rasia who pleaded with her to help protect his family against some evil force. She declined and took the man captive, dragging him around the forest on a leash instead.
During the period when Vorgansharax ruled over Phlan, many of the Quivering Forests inhabitants were drawn into Barovia, and Jeny was no exception. She set herself up as a powerful spellcaster, making fey pacts with mortals in exchange for magical services. Jeny grew in her own abilities while living in Barovia, which she called "the Realm of Dread" but was also haunted by the ghost of Talaric Daoran who sought revenge against her for his death decades before.
Though Jeny greatly enjoyed the increase in power afforded her by the Dark Powers of the Domains of Dread, she knew that such power did not come without a price, and wished to return home to Faerûn before that price had to be paid.
In order to defeat the vestige of a dead god, brought back by a girl named Esmae (whose combined powers had drawn in the Quivering Forest to Barovia in the first place), and to return home to the Moonsea, Jeny formed a temporary coven with two mortal women and enacted a scrying ritual to find Esmae which allowed adventurers to confront and defeat her, thereby allowing those trapped in Barovia to return home.