Old Jerry was an eccentric man who lived in the Blacklake District of Neverwinter during the late 15 century DR. In fact, he was an undercover Harper spy. His real name was kept secret.
He posed as an old homeless man and pretended to be mad. He had the odd habit of yelling out the names of random cities found in Faerûn, then giving trivial facts about them when asked.
He worked hard to thwart the schemes of the crime gangs of Neverwinter, such as the Nashers and the Dead Rats. As Old Jerry, he passed unnoticed and learned much, and even manipulated the gangs against each other. He communicated with his contacts via coded messages stashed in secret places. Otherwise, he just tried to survive.
Among his Harper contacts was no less than the famous Elminster.
For a time, Jerry was harassed by the Neverwinter Guard until he chose to live in out-of-the-way places in the city. He was largely ignored by gangs because he had no belongings of value.
Some time after the Siege of Neverwinter, in the , Jerry was apparently living in the sewers beneath the Blacklake District, coincidentally close to the Dead Rats lair. An adventurer seeking Gothwan Cooper, whod stolen the Crown of Neverwinter, may have encountered him there. Some time later, Jerry relocated to an isolated spot near the district gate in the Lakeside area, and claimed that adventurers had broken into his place in the sewers and robbed him.In the Neverwinter MMO, Old Jerry was removed from a place in the Blacklake Sewers, part of "The Dead Rats" quest, and relocated to the Blacklake District zone. His later speech apparently reflects this change.
Later that year, during the citys Protectors Jubilee, Elminster visited the city and bade adventurers who sought him out to bring him a coded message left by an undercover agent, likely Jerry. However, a sludge-covered zombie stepped on a bottle containing the message and walked off with it the adventure tracked it down and brought it to Elminster. However, it may have been ruined regardless, as Elminster needed someone to meet Old Jerry directly. He dropped his act long enough to report there were rumors of trouble brewing and gangs making truces.During the Protectors Jubilee event, Elminster gives two quests "Message in a Bottle" only refers to an unknown agent, while "The Unlikely Spy" involves Old Jerry. Given their similar roles, this article assumes Old Jerry is the agent.