| alignment35    = Chaotic evil
| challenge35    = 14
| class35        = 
| refs35         = 
Jesanta Beril was a Nar demonbinder and cleric of Talona of the mid-to-late 14 century DR.
She showed great love for books, the Art, and history, but had long since begun her descent into madness.
As well as a user of both divine magic and arcane magic, she could also, of note, cast spells in ways that made them reach into coterminous planes or into extradimensional spaces with entry points within the area of effect.
Of note, Jesanta had mislabeled some of her poisons, with flasks reading "CLW" for her potions of inflict light wounds, and "poison" for cure light wounds. She also owned a Hewards handy haversack, and an iron sign for demonbinding.
After her encounter with Benedict (who was actually the balor Fareeansis), she continued a search for knowledge and vengeance.
She had been schooled in clerical magic by Gaurin, a blightlord, and in the history of Narfell by her uncle. She learnt demonbinding from Benedict. She was also served by an imp named Gaurin after her late tutor.
Jesanta Berils parents died after fleeing north of Chessenta, to a zone near Dun-Tharos. She was raised by her uncle, who taught her of the history of the Narfelli empire and that her family were heirs to its ruling family. Her interest and hard work with magic attracted the attention of the goddess Talona.
After her twelfth birthday, her uncle found an instructor for her, a man named Gaurin, who took her to a shack in the woods and taught her the ways of Talona. But her insistence on the superiority of demonbinding caused a wedge between them, and he disciplined her more than once for that. He was not able to complete her training as a blightlady, however, as on the summer of her eighteenth birthday she wandered into her uncles cabin and found he had died months prior from a Talonite poison. In response, she killed Gaurin in his sleep and left.
She consulted with sages and worked from ancient tomes to learn the powers of her ancestors later on, she came across an old man named Benedict, who was actually the balor Fareeansis in disguise. He taught her a great deal about demonbinding, just not enough to bind him. Though she no longer held much regard for Talona, the goddess continued to smile upon her path as of 1372 DR.