Kaanyr Vhok was a cambion, leader of the Scoured Legion (sometimes seen as Scourged Legion), and Master of Hellgate Keep.
As the son of a marilith and a human father, Vhok appeared mostly humanoid, but with light olive-colored skin and silver hair. Most believed him to be an aging half-elf due to his pointed ears. Beneath his rich clothes, Vhoks chest, arms, and legs were covered with deep green scales that showed his tanarri heritage.
His skin was finely scaled and he had strong features. He had pointed teeth. He was tall and had the strength of a stone giant. He had red skin that was hot and hard enough to turn a blade. He was also handsome, despite his black teeth. He could fly at will and was resistant to fire.
Vhoks symbol was a scepter in a gauntleted hand.
Vhok was very charismatic. 
Kaanyr had learned the secrets of the creation of talismans of spell turning, and he and his bands of tanarukka actively began to spread the knowledge of how to craft them to orc tribes in the Nether, Rauvin, and Greypeak Mountains and in the Fallen Lands.
Kaanyrs plots and maneuverings, as well as his luck, led to his survival in the political infighting of Hellgate Keeps tanarri and his eventual rise to the command of the surviving forces of Hellgate Keep. He and his consort, Aliisza, were trapped under Hellgate Keep for decades. He had three mariliths under him (known as the "Triumvirate"), including his mother, Mulvassyss. He used the mariliths against each other and then slew his own mother to take command of the demons trapped under Hellgate Keep. He subsequently used them to form the main forces of the Scoured Legion when he occupied Ammarindar.
Kaanyr Vhok on his Throne of Bone underneath Hellgate Keep.
He would much rather have quietly operated in secret for years. However, due to a combination of fate and his own desire for secret plots, Vhok, and much of his army, were deep beneath the Keep when, in 1369 DR, the Gatekeepers Crystal brought much of it crashing down and thus thrusting him to a position that required quick action.
In 1372 DR, Vhok allied with King Horgar Steelshadow of Gracklstugh and the Jaezred Chaulssin against the drow city of Menzoberranzan, and his Scoured Legion participated in the final and unsuccessful Siege of Menzoberranzan, foiled at the eleventh hour due to the timely return of Lolth. Vhok retreated quickly, preserving the greater part of his army of tanarukka, allowing the duergar, who were not yet aware of Lolths return, to bear the brunt of drow retribution while covering his retreat. He then led the Scoured Legion to set up its base at Hellgate Keep once again.
In 1373 DR, not long after his defeat at Menzoberranzan, Vhok attempted to take control of the city of Sundabar because of some rivalry he had with Helm Dwarf-Friend. He first used Aliisza to infiltrate Helm Dwarf-Friends house, then allied with Zasian Menz and Banite priests, devising a plan to use Aliiszas pregnancy to secretly enter the House of the Triad and bathe in the energy-rich waters of the Lifespring. Vhok, Zasian, and the draconic hobgoblin Myshik Morueme traveled through the Elemental Plane of Fire to a portal to the House of the Triad, which Aliisza opened from the other side.
However, Zasian — in fact, a priest of Cyric — had been using Vhok for his own purposes to enter the celestial plane. The astral deva Tauran proposed an agreement with Vhok if Vhok would help him track down Zasian, Vhok would be allowed to bathe in the Lifespring. Vhok agreed but felt betrayed when Tauran placed a geas on him and he was forced to accompany Tauran, Aliisza, and Aliiszas son Kael across the planes. They failed to stop Zasian, and thus Cyric was able to steal Azuths staff and kill Mystra.
When at last Vhok was released from the geas, he left his companions behind, feeling betrayed that Aliisza had chosen her son and an angel over himself. He joined up with the balor lord Axithar and the marilith Vhissilka, providing them information that allowed them to invade the House of the Triad. During the invasion, which was turned away, Vhok attempted to reach the Lifespring but was killed by Aliisza before he could do so.
Vhoks armor was crimson and gold, with a golden breastplate.
* Burnblood, an ancient elven +2 Spellblade, granted immunity to Cone of Cold
* Ghost gauntlet
* Scepter Malevolus, a steel rod with black runes, marking him as the leader of the Scoured Legion
* Ring of protection +3
Vhoks weapons and magical items were confiscated by the Court of Tyr. Soon after, in Dweomerheart, he procured a wand of lightning (activated by the word "Galvanos"), a cape of flying, and a new sword that had dark energy running through it. He began calling the sword Spitefang.
Vhok and Aliisza together on the Throne of Bone.
Vhoks on-off consort and the chief lieutenant was the alu-fiend Aliisza, to whom he often entrusted his most important missions of espionage. He was quite close to her, but that didnt stop him from using her for his own ends. He had a soft spot for her and originally wanted to make amends for his betrayal, but when she appeared to choose her son and Tauran over staying with him, he left bitterly and didnt hesitate to betray her and her companions to a demon horde.
Vhoks chief tanarukk aid and the lieutenant was named Rorgak. The feyri Lysalis was one of his chief sorcerers.