| refs5e         = 
Kalain was a famously eccentric half-elven painter and former lover of Dagult Neverember from Waterdeep. After separating from the then-Open Lord, she started painting monsters that, thanks to her ability to draw upon the Weave, could come to life.
After her relationship ended, Kalain became paranoid, thinking that every stranger she encountered was an assassin sent by Dagult.
By harnessing the Weave, Kalain could bring her monstrous paintings to life.
Kalains house was a stone windmill in Waterdeeps Sea Ward converted into an estate sometime prior to . By the time she was living there (over a century later), the building had entered a state of disrepair, and became infested with rats.
When Kalain painted monsters, some of her common subjects included ankhegs, carrion crawlers, displacer beasts, ettercaps, gargoyles, ghasts, gibbering mouthers, hell hounds, manticores, minotaurs, mummies, and werewolves.
Kalain loved Dagult dearly, and became furious when he broke their relationship off. The monsters she painted were meant to be representations of him.
The one exception to Kalains paranoid tendencies was Vhaspar Holmdreg, an elderly Ilmatari priest who periodically brought her food, firewood, and painting supplies. He rented a room in the west wing of Kalains house, and as such was entrusted with a key to the building.
Kalain had earned the loyalty of the rats living in her home, and they were always ready to defend her from attack.
In the , Kalain got a commission to paint a portrait of Dagult Neverember. Their meeting sparked a passionate affair that lasted for more than a year, although it began falling apart when Dagult couldnt keep his promises and spent more and more time in Neverwinter, culminating in him choosing the Jewel of the North over Kalain. After this rejection, she began painting monsters and turning them real.
Dagult attempted to thoroughly ruin Kalains career after leaving her, using his authority to separate her from the high society of Waterdeep and having her works and reputation gradually destroyed. This experience drove Kalain mad, and she became a recluse in her own house.
Kalains home was one of the locations that was potentially said to conceal the entrance to the Vault of Dragons.