The Kalach-Chas construct, often called simply the Construct by the hero and companions, was a blade golem built in the realm of Illefarn. Reactivated by agents of the King of Shadows, the blade golem was eventually neutralized and salvaged by the Kalach-Cha and used against its former owners.
At over  tall, the Kalach-Chas construct was an impressive sight, though typical for a blade golem. Made up of an assortment of weapons and armor, the Construct was a dangerous enemy and a valuable ally. The right arm of the golem was as long as the average grown human and thick plate armor with magical enchantments gave it a great degree of protection against enemy attacks. This armor had a strangely blue color to it and this, along with its unusual aesthetics, was a sign of its origin as a weapon of war in ancient Illefarn.
Other than its creation by the people of Illefarn, little about the early history of the construct can be determined for sure.
However, shortly before the Shadow War erupted along the Sword Coast North in the , the blade golem was reactivated and deployed by the King of Shadows servant Black Garius. The Construct was first encountered by the Kalach-Cha almost by accident, when the hero assaulted a githyanki hideout within Neverwinters walls. The Construct attacked both the githyanki and the Kalach-Cha, though it was unable to thwart the latter and was damaged so heavily that it retreated through a portal laid by the githyanki.
As a result of this move, the golem was captured and rendered inert by Gariuss githyanki foes so that when the Kalach-Cha encountered it again while attempting the rescue of Shandra Jerro, it was harmless. Realizing its value, the Kalach-Cha and companions recovered the Construct. Eventually, sometime after the reconstruction of Crossroad Keep began, the bard Grobnar Gnomehands took it upon himself to reactivate the blade golem. In order to do this, he required the use of glowwater, the Tome of Iltkazar, and some runepieces from the ancient Illefarn ruins at Arvahn. However, before the Construct was reactivated, the treacherous Bishop managed to trick Grobnar into giving him the override code for the Construct. But Grobnar had in fact deceived Bishop and had an independent set of overrides, which he could have ended up using to thwart Bishops plans.
The Construct was eventually destroyed during the assault on the King of Shadowss base. Bishop might have unsuccessfully attempted to wrest control of the Construct, but to no avail. In either case, the collapse of the fortress resulted in the Constructs destruction under falling debris, though Grobnar attempted to shield the Construct by leaping across it.