Kallithrea Starbrow was one of the daughters of the Roadwarden of the Roadwarden Guard, Arelin Starbrow, active in the mid-to-late 14 century DR.
Kallithrea was an insecure young woman who chose the profession of a cleric. She had long curly brown hair.
Kallithrea was a daughter to Arelin Starbrow and Morudel of Marsember. Her siblings were troublemaker Dazmilar, heroic Vidruand, and bloodthirsty Yemandra.
In the rare cations when Kallithrea took to violence, she wielded an enchanted +3 mace and wore a +3 magical banded mail, as well as a shield and a helmet of the same enchantment. She had a ring of protection adorning her finger under a set of gauntlets of ogre power.
In the early 1360s DR, age 30, Kallithrea Starbrow was one of the members of the Sunite clergy in the Skull Crag Keeps Chapel of Lady Firehair. After Kallithreas mother perished in a devious monster attack, the priestly daughter was considered for the position of the Roadwarden. Kallithrea did not think she was fit to be the steward of the keep as the youth felt she liked a steeled heart of a warrior. However, she also thought her siblings did not possess the required strength of character to take on the job. With Arelin Starbrows death, the Arms of the Roadwarden were lost and scattered by the monster horde. Kallithrea was tasked with the recovery of the Shield of the Roadwarden. She was aided in the task by a group of caravan guards who recently saved Sir Dutiocss life. Not being an adventuring type, Kallithrea sent her companion half-elf Arderiel in her stead.
When Morudel, Kallithreas father, was kidnapped by the villainous vampire Keremish and help hostage in a hin village across the Tunlands, Yemandra was furious. The undead demanded the Arms of the Roadwarden in exchange for Morudels life, yet Yemandra was adamant that the magic set was to remain within the Skull Crag Keep and the Roadwarden Guard need to prepare an assault to avenge Morudel. While Kallithrea called for the siblings to give up the Arms of the Roadwarden to save what was left of their family.