Karzov was the second-in-command of the Nashers faction of the Sons of Alagondar in Neverwinter during the late 15 century DR.
He was quite a cunning man, capable of wielding both subterfuge and extreme violence as was needed.
While Karzov and his superior Arlon Bladeshaper sometimes disagreed with how they accomplished their goals, the two maintained a relationship of mutual respect.
He maintained a mutually beneficial relationship with the Dead Rats gang, even when their goals conflicted with his own.
On one occasion, he famously orchestrated a chaotic riot in the city while he and some of his Nasher companions carried out the assassination of a senior officer in the Neverwinter Guard.
By the late 1470s DR, Karzov had become the second-in-command of the Nasher rebel group. He was based in Blacklake District and commanded their operations there. When Arlon was absent, the Neverwinter Guard suspected Karzov had taken power in the Nashers. He ordered their brutal takeover of the district in the  it was unclear whether this was his doing or Bladeshapers. In fact, the two remained in communication and Arlon was simply dealing with other schemes. At some point, Karzov put a bounty on Private Zoey Fargos head.
thumb|right|250px|For a rebel, Karzov lives like a king.
That year, Karzov masterminded the heist by Gothwan Cooper and Honor Reigh to steal the Crown of Neverwinter, intending to use it to assert the Nashers control over the city. Unfortunately, many other groups also wanted the Crown—the Dead Rats kidnapped Gothwan, whom Karzov had neglected to protect, thinking to ransom him for the Crown. But Karzov was uncaring he abandoned Gothwan a second time and declined to take revenge against the Dead Rats. After Gothwan was found and gave up Karzov and the crowns location, Zoey and an adventurer raided Karzovs safehouse, though the Nashers set fire to it to cover his escape. They pursued him to the Nashers warehouse headquarters and finally slew him and retrieved the crown.