Kelemvor (), formerly Kelemvor Lyonsbane, also known as the Lord of the Dead and Judge of the Damned, was the god of death and the dead, and master of the Crystal Spire in the Fugue Plane.
In his mortal days, Kelemvor was a skilled mercenary and adventurer, with the heart of a noble paladin concealed under rude manners and thwarted by his mysterious family curse. When he was killed by the mortal Cyric atop Blackstaff Tower, Kelemvors soul was absorbed into Cyrics sentient sword, Godsbane—in fact Mask, the God of Thieves in disguise. Hidden away in a prison for ten years, his soul became a pawn in Masks scheme to undo the now-divine Cyric. Kelemvor ultimately escaped, led a revolt of the denizens of the City of the Dead and defeated the Mad God, and was acclaimed by the deceased souls as the new god of death and the dead.
Fair yet cold, Kelemvor was the god of death and the dead—the most recent deity to hold this position, following in the footsteps of Jergal, Myrkul, and Cyric. Unlike these other deities, whose rule as gods of the dead made the afterlife an uncertain and fearful thing, Kelemvor promoted that death was a natural part of life and should not be feared as long as it was understood.
Kelemvors avatar appeared much as his mortal self, a human warrior with a dark, tanned face, piercing green eyes, a square-jaw, and a black, wild mane with a grey streaks. He was clad in chainmail and dark leather, and always wore a wide belt with a large, cabochon-cut cats eye jewel in the front.
As mortals, Kelemvor and Midnight were lovers, but it is unlikely this was maintained after Midnights ascension to take Mystras place as they were afterwards both deities with responsibilities.
Kelemvors greatest enemy was Cyric, but he also fiercely opposed the machinations of Velsharoon, the necromancer god who animated the dead into undead and used them for unjust and evil deeds, and thus stood against everything Kelemvor worked for, and Talona, for the unnatural deaths caused by her diseases.
This also made him an ally of Lathander the Morninglord, who also opposed undeath. Kelemvor maintained practical alliances with good- and neutral-aligned gods of death in other pantheons Sehanine Moonbow, Urogalan, and Osiris as well. Kelemvor was served by the original deity of death, the mysterious, fatalistic, and pragmatic Jergal, who kept records of the final disposition of spirits of the deceased.
The death clergy, as they were known, had many duties most involved tending to the last wishes of the dying and providing burial services to those who died alone. They also set out to cure diseases and defend people from monsters so that folk did not die before their time. Their final and arguably most important task was the destruction of undeath in all its various forms as it was an affront to Kelemvor. Elite priests of Kelemvor were known as Doomguides. Servants of Kelemvor were usually clad in somber gray vestments and brandished hand-and-a-half swords, or bastard swords.
200px|Kelemvors holy symbol from the 14 century DR.|
After Cyric murdered Bhaal and ascended to godhood, the first thing he wanted to accomplish was to have Kelemvors soul so that he could gain an advantage over the new Mystra, his most hated rival, and whose portfolio over magic he coveted. However, for ten years after the Time of Troubles, Cyric and his church were unable to find Kelemvors soul, every divination and spell they tried yielded nothing. Cyric suspected that there were traitors within his own church who fostered Kelemvors soul. He later launched the Second Banedeath in the , unleashing his Inquisition on Zhentil Keep, Yûlash, Darkhold, Teshwave, and the Citadel of the Raven to cleanse all Zhent holdings of non-Cyricist priests. Cyric also released Kezef the Chaos Hound from Pandemonium, and commanded it to track Kelemvors soul. Kezef ended up being trapped again by Mask.
Mask used Kelemvors soul to gain the cooperation of Mystra, all the while planning a revolt in the City of the Dead against Cyric. With the help of Mystra, Torm, Oghma, and Cyrics own high priest Fzoul Chembryl (whose loyalty lay with the dead Bane), great chaos was caused in two of Cyrics most important bases of faith Zhentil Keep and the City of the Dead. A great number of Cyrics followers lost their faith, thus greatly weakening Cyric himself. Without the will to control the City of the Dead, dead spirits were freed and roamed about the City. In addition, Cyrics nightmare was freed from Dendar the Night Serpent, and the dream found Cyric, causing him to think that Kelemvor had somehow returned to life and to seek revenge. At that moment, Cyric, though a greater power, lost his mind and crushed his sword, which freed Kelemvor, and made his nightmare come true. The two fought, a dead soul against a god. Cyrics fear, indecision, and madness became his defeat, and Kelemvor finally managed to overthrow Cyrics rule in the City. By the wish of all dead spirits and Denizens in the Gray Wastes, Kelemvor became the new God of Death.
Kelemvor retrieves the soul of a slain warrior.
To be the Lord of the Dead is to be the judgment of the departed souls. Being the new Lord Death, Kelemvor wished to clear all the corruptions in the Realms of Death brought by former Lords of Death. He reshaped the Bone Castle, a twisted citadel in the Gray Wastes where Jergal, Myrkul, and Cyric had all ruled from, into the transparent Crystal Spire, its translucency representing that no more should Death be a frightening mystery. While faithful souls would be claimed by their respective deities, faithless souls and those with a false faith that his or her god did not want, were judged before the God of Death. Former Gods of Death would decide whether they were the Faithless or the False. Either way, in the hands of Myrkul or Cyric, these souls eventually ended up being eternally tortured.
Kelemvor, however, was more lenient on those Faithless and False who were virtuous and honorable in life, while the ones who were cowardly or capricious were severely punished. Those souls judged as noble were sent to the then merrier and heaven-like parts in the City of the Dead, such as the Singing City or Pax Cloister, while for thieves and cowards there were hell-like parts of the City such as the Acid Swamps.
As a result, honorable and brave mortals no longer feared death, and recklessly threw their lives away, trusting in Kelemvors judgment rather than in benevolent gods. The cowardly and crafty mortals became too fearful to do much, lest they die and find themselves before Kelemvor. This, in combination with Mystras unjust granting of magic, favoring only those who were good, brought unintentional imbalance and robbed the other deities of potential worshipers. Being exposed by Cyric, Kelemvor and Mystra were accused by the Circle of Greater Gods of being guilty of "Incompetence by Humanity".
Kelemvor wondered how he could judge the damned, when he himself failed his own personal judgment. He gradually came to realize that there was nothing human in being a god. To correct his mistakes, great changes were undergone in his realm, as well as in himself. The City of the Dead was changed to a gray world, not truly light, not totally dark, simply dull gray. Gone was the good and evil in the City, only indifference and silence remained. The once diamond-like Crystal Spire was also smoked the color of topaz.The novel Crucible The Trial of Cyric the Mad states that Kelemvor also replaced the Wall of the Faithless with a mirrored wall that showed the false and the faithless their reflections in such a way as to reveal the follies and life choices that led them to be sent to his realm. However, the more recent Sword Coast Adventurers Guide sourcebook still describes faithless souls being mortared into the Wall for eternity. As of its November 2020 errata, the Sword Coast Adventurers Guide no longer mentions the Wall of the Faithless. Kelemvor also rid himself of all signs of humanity in order to properly fulfill his duties, which meant replacing the warrior-like human he used to assume with a darkly robed figure, his raven black hair turned to silver, his eyes became pupilless, his appearance aged, his armor tattered and black, and he donned a silver death mask.
He then conducted the Re-evaluation, where all souls in the City were to be judged according to new criteria, then be sentenced to new places in the City. Souls being judged would not find torture, but neither would they find joy. They would exist with souls ethically similar to themselves, and it would be up to the inhabitants to make their own lives in the same manner as in the living world.
The masked Kelemvor.
During the process, Adon (Kelemvor and Mystras mutual friend, as well the patriarch of Mystras new church) was driven mad by Cyrics trickery, losing his faith in Mystra, and had died a faithless soul. Mystra came to Kelemvor and asked for Adons soul, which Kelemvor steadfastly refused since Adon was now one of the Faithless, or perhaps even the False. This, along with Kelemvors loss of passion, eventually caused the breaking up of their relationship. However, as Adons death and apparent faithlessness was in truth caused by Cyric and was not authentic, Kelemvor allowed Adon to reunite with the Lady of Magic not long afterwards.