Khalitharius was an efreeti Pasha who terrorized the Raurin desert around . The wizard Martek bound him under the Star of Aga-Pelar in Pazar, but prophesied the genies release a thousand years from then.
Even after a thousand years of imprisonment, the efreeti was of a snobbish royalty and was not predisposed to treat anyone, even his liberators, kindly. He wanted to see the world above as of , and freely talked about his plans to destroy all civilization.
The pasha could call endlessly on his own magical power, and thus it was no challenge for him to constantly cast fireball, flame strike, wall of fire, invisible, detect magic, enlarge, polymorph self, and assume gaseous form. He could also create illusions with both visible and aural effects, and even fulfill anothers wish, though he was loath to do so. He was also immune to all fire attacks, and could travel the planes known to the efreet.
Before coming to Faerûn, the efreeti was one of the six efreeti Pashas and Viziers of the Fire Sultan. Khalitharius arrived at Raurin about fifty years after the last inhabitant of Medinat Muskawoon walked its streets and over 1000 years before , sometime around . He turned the cursed city of stone into his base of operations, terrorizing the desert all across with an army of undead, the Malatath.
At some point, Martek challenged Khalitharius. The efreeti toyed with the caravan bringing the mage, having one of its guards slain every night, The magic-user managed to complete his ritual successfully and bound Khalitharius inside a lead box.
A thousand years later in , Khalitharius was accidentally released by adventurers, as Martek foresaw he may have turned their mounts into a camel-fry if they dawdled after releasing him. He moved to the Crypt of Badr Al-Mosak, Khalitharius personally took the princess a week later, suspecting she was tied to Martek perhaps sensing his magic on her palm.
Adventurers confronted the Pasha not long after in the Crypt of Badr Al-Mosak, perhaps using the power of the palm sign amulet from the Oasis of the White Palm to strike him down the efreeti retreated from the confrontation and left behind Princess Shadalah. With the mark from the Princess Palm, the adventurers knew to go to the ruined city of Phoenix, where a djinn lay bound. Khalitarius had also sent a beholder to the city, to find possible lackeys. Once they released this djinn, the Vizier Aeraldoth, the beholder may have informed his master of the release if alive, making the first battle between the two genies one on top of the city of Phoenix.
Shortly after, these adventurers succeeded at resurrecting Vizier Martek, who quickly confronted the Pasha, spent from his attempt at conquering the desert and from the constant fighting with Aeraldoth. At the end of this confrontation, the efreeti appeared to be slain, but might have been instead banished forever.
Khalitharius was rumored to be actually a demon imprisoned by the old gods, who they would release to punish those who turned from their cruel ways.