Tomb Master Kiinyon Colbathin was the head of the Tomb Guard of Evereska and a councilor that served as one of the Hill Elders. He was a complex figure that remained in a position of high power during some of Evereskas darkest days.
While Tomb Master Colbathin was seen as an authoritative and just leader to the Evereskan elves, and considered a great warrior among many, and bouts of rage that were beneath an elf of his stature.
For all his faults, Kiinyon was a still considered an experienced commander that held valued wisdom. For instance he was more knowledgable about elven high magic than any other non-caster in all of Evereska.
In the , Tomb Master Colbathin and his fellow Hill Elders discovered that a Tomb Guard patrol led by Galaeron Nihmedu managed to inadvertently puncture the Sharn Wall beneath the Greypeak Mountains while tracking a band of human tomb raiders. Following the Hill Elders interrogation of the humans, High Lord Erlan Duirsar tasked Colbathin and several high mages with repairing the wound in the Sharn Wall. 
Colbathins initial expedition beneath was an abject failure, and the second was downright catastrophic. While nearly all the elves of the Tomb Guard were slain, Colbathin managed to survive along with High Lord Gervas Imesfor, who had joined the foray within the crypts beneath the Greypeaks. They were kept imprisoned within a phaerimm WarGather deeper underground. Fortunately for Evereska, the two Hill Elders were rescued by Galaeron and Melegaunt Tanthul, the leader of the very same humans from Vaasa captured by the Tomb Guard just a few days before. They escaped the phaerimm nest by traveling through the Shadow Fringe, by means of Melegaunts magic.
Disgraced after losing nearly the entirety of the Tomb Guard against these early skirmishes against the phaerimm, Kiinyon Colbathin attempted to resign his post as Tomb Master. Rather than lose an venerated commander, High Lord Duirsar tasked him with defense of the Evereska Vale in the conflicts that followed. 
Colbathin continued to advise Lord Duirsar during the phaerimm-led siege of Evereska during the , preferring a more conservative and defensive strategy to the riskier maneuvers suggested by Evereskas greatest non-elven ally, Khelben Arunsun. In the end, Lord Duirsar sided with the archmage Khelben over the disgraced Tomb Master, believing Evereska had to take the risk necessary to stop suffering more losses against the phaerimm.
It was said that Colbathin once killed a beholder that had taken up residence within the tomb of King Sileron beneath the Greypeaks and killed two entire squads of tomb guardians. Despite his individual victory, the loss was considered among greatest the Tomb Guards suffered prior to the return of the phaerimm.