Marcus of Shadowdale
King, formerly known as Marcus of Shadowdale, was an intelligent dog that had been reincarnated from a human ranger. After his reincarnation he made his way to Ravens Bluff and endeared himself to the local population, who gave him his new name.
As a human, Marcus of Shadowdale stood  tall and weighed . He had a lean and hard-muscled build with a handsome face. He wore of clothes fine quality, though they showed the wear and tear of a rangers life. In battle he favored chainmail armor.
As a dog, he looked exactly like a little mixed-breed terrier.
King tended to hang around local adventurers and wandered Ravens Bluff, looking for familiar things from his former life. He lived off of handouts from the townspeople who mostly treated him as a minor hero. He foiled quite a few robberies and pickpocket attempts by barking or biting the thieves, even saving a child from drowning once. His taste in food was noticeably different than a typical dog and he was fond of approaching pretty girls. He often accompanied Ambassador Carrague around the city and stayed with him in his underground home during inclement weather.
In the , Marcus was looking for adventure with some friends in the mountains between Ravens Bluff and Procampur. They had heard of an abandoned keep which formerly belonged to an evil witch and thought they might find something of value in the ruins. As it turned out, the keep was not abandoned and the witch killed the entire party when they trespassed. She was quite taken with the young rangers good looks and decided to keep him. She brought him back to life with the druidic spell reincarnate spell and he came back as a dog. The witch then kept him in a cage while researching a way to restore his humanity, but Marcus managed to escape and eventually made his way back to the city of Ravens Bluff.
King eventually became such a well known fixture of the city that the storefront of Traagors Tours and Souvenir Shop regularly sold stuffed toys of him for 2 silver pieces.
In the late 14 century DR, the famous silk merchant and Vistani Madam Coth had dreams that King was in danger prior to a sudden disappearance of the dog. Unknown to all, King was one of many creatures captured by the insane wizard Pyra Deathmaster for her mad experiments. Under the guidance of Madam Coth and a legendary thief known as the Rogue of the World, the adventurers eventually managed to track King down to Pyras lair in the sewers of Ravens Bluff