Klevin VanSheran () was an agent of the Lords Alliance and proprietor of the Weave of Life in Port Nyanzaru in Chult in the late 15 century DR.
Klevin was a young human man from Tethyr, but since moving to Chult, he had adopted the manner of a native Chultan. He had tanned skin, green eyes, and dark hair (which he dyed black).
Klevin loved and was fascinated by Chultan culture, and went to lengths to immerse himself in the traditions and styles of his new home. He was eager to share his knowledge of Port Nyanzaru and worked to protect it when he could. However, he was also deeply selfish and put his own interests before the goals of the Lords Alliance. He was polite, but could be surprisingly nasty to those who did not respect his requests.
He preferred to converse in the Chultan language whenever possible, if for no other reason than to demonstrate that he knew how to speak it (almost) perfectly.
Klevin was the owner and trader at the Weave of Life, a large and thriving shop in the western end of the Grand Souk in the Market Ward of Port Nyanzaru. His shop sold many Chultan clothes and other wares. Klevin penned pamphlets detailing the local culture of Port Nyanzaru, which he also sold.
In his capacity as a Lords Alliance representative, he had a web of contacts around the city and he asked that other Lords Alliance agents report to him. He kept tabs on all ships coming and going from the city as well as on potential threats to Port Nyanzaru, even tracking of the movements of yuan-ti tribes as far afield as the Peaks of Flame and Sky Lizard Mountains.
Klevin was not well respected by the people of Port Nyanzaru. However, his position allowed him to maintain a number of important connections in the city, including with local merchants, the Citizens Brigade, and the harbormaster. His fellow Lords Alliance agents included Arreni Goldbirth.
He occasionally cooperated with representatives from other factions within Port Nyanzaru, such as when several of them elected to hire the mercenary Pozzanna Lordeaux to secure a stronghold within the Chultan jungle, when they rallied behind Hawkdriver Mazugulak to drive back an undead attack on the city, or when they came together under Alastar Bol to send agents to investigate undead forces stemming from the ruined city of Matolo.
Klevin was sent to Chult by the Lords Alliance at the request of his father.
During the events of the death curse around , Klevin sought help from adventurers to investigate a smuggling ring operating out of Tiryki Anchorage, which was run by Sanuya, who was given a piece of the Dreamers Amulet by Nahurali.
After the death curse had ended and undead began assailing Port Nyanzaru, Klevin tasked his agents with finding anyone behind these attacks who could be brought to justice and&mdashmore importantly&mdashbe made to pay for the damage that had been caused. He also began to fear that yuan-ti had infiltrated his factions ranks, and so sent an agent to the Tomb of Ihl to acquire the means to flush out the spies under the guise of investigating possible activity by cultists of Dendar.
When the Maze of Ubtao was found, Klevin had the idea to order one of his agents to dispose of an indestructible magical dagger inside that dungeon so as that it could not be found and used to incriminate an ally of the Lords Alliance, who had used it in a crime of passion.