Wise Kovarka was the Council of Elders of the Wise Ones oldest shaman and the Chieftain of the Wise Ones, in the late 14 century DR.
The Chieftain was a powerful shaman of the tribe. She had the ability to commune with the spirits of the Jungle and knew secrets of the creation of magical items such as gourds of healing brew and gourds of poison antidote.
Kovarka inherited her position of the Chieftain after the death of Arkari at the hands the dreaded spider katanga.
In the late 14 century DR, Kovarka of the Tribe of the Wise Ones became aware of a looming threat after communing with the spirits of the Living Jungle. The leader of the dreaded spider katanga, the Mother of a Thousand Young, was swollen with a thousand children ready to overflow the jungles. In preparation for the birthing, she initiated a ritual that sent deadly poisons into the rivers cascading off the Fire Mountain. A Huroola Nubari named Nathani bought word of the location of the spider katanga caves in the Fire Mountain while the rest of the warrior group was captured. Chieftain Kovarka put out a call of heroes of the Malatran Plateau to venture into the mountains, find the survivors and slay the Mother of a Thousand Young. Despite it being a desperate mission, Kovarka asked the stronger and more experienced heroes to protect their younger kin. She did not want to see the youth die instead, the shaman wanted them to be guided and nurtured to become the new generation of great heroes of the Jungle.
Even though it was unknown if every one of the Jungles heroes survived the battle, it was revealed that the surviving Nubari warrior Nathani was a traitor allied with Talunuku, a katanga who wanted to claim the Mother of a Thousand Young title from the Mother in power. Unbeknownst to the spirits and Wise Kovarka, the poison was the doing of Talunuku, who expected it to attract heroes who would inevitably slay her opponent. And they did. Talunukus fate remained unrecorded while Chieftain Kovarka and the Council judged the actions of Nathani. Subsequently, Kovarka led the efforts to purify and heal the damage done to the Jungle by the foul spider katanga poison.