Kresselack, also known as the Black Wolf, was a barbarian king in Icewind Dale who conquered a vast kingdom in his youth.
Everard wrote that Kresselacks hands were red with blood and footsteps were like a winter wolf in the snow.
The warlord kept his set of plate armor and helmet, both made out of dark metal, in his sarcophagus, along with his enchanted sword.
Glorying in warfare, Kresselack launched raids into towns and hamlets across the Spine of the World, slaughtering many and bringing those who once opposed him under his rule and founding his kingdom. He was hated by many and his name considered a curse.
Legends told of a great battle near the village of the Enholms Point where Kresselack clashed blades with a Tribe of the Bear hero Hreidgar, the veteran of the war against Arakon the Arch-Mage. Kresselack defeated the barbarian and dealt him grave injuries that would soon after claim the heros life. However, Kresselack was impressed by the barbarians strength and conceded the battle of the Enholms Point out of respect for the foe.
However, when he grew old and realized that he would die and be dead forever, Kresselack knew fear for the first time in his life. Therefore, he tried to earn a place at the side of the Lord of the Dead, the god Myrkul, by constructing tombs in the Vale of Shadows in Icewind Dale. When the construction of the primary tomb was complete, he slew the workers and buried them outside in minor tombs. Afterwards, he sacrificed his most loyal followers to become the guardians of the primary tomb built for himself. Then he sacrificed himself.
When at last Kresselack died, the people of the Spine were relieved. The wind howled the day of his death until his corpse was interred in his tomb.
Kresselack had expected to rule beside Myrkul for all eternity, but instead he became a spirit cursed to forever haunt his tomb. The tomb was guarded by his sacrificed followers and a servant of Myrkul (his Sending) who had been raised from the dead.
Centuries later, in the Year of the Cold Soul, 1281 DR, adventurers delved into Kresselacks Tomb in the Vale of Shadows, fought through his legion of undead and encountered his undead form. However, he and his followers were not the cause of the problems threatening Kuldahar, and he revealed instead that Lysan was a priestess of Auril. For slaying her, he would allow them to plunder his tomb.