Kurgaloth was a pit fiend from Avernus. In the late 15 century DR, he sought to ascend further in the infernal hierarchy by destabilizing and ruining Waterdeep from within.
Kurgaloth revealed little about his motivations, although he acted surprisingly brazen when he openly moved against Waterdeep despite knowing that many archdevils had servants and contracts among the citys nobility. However, this could have been a calculated move to achieve his greater goals.
In combat, Kurgaloth favored summoning devils to support him, notably erinyes. He weilded a powerful mace and hurled fireballs at his foes. He was highly resilient, and had the ability to seed the battleground with runes that could weaken his foes and empower himself.
Kurgaloth sought to destabilize Waterdeep through his contracts with the aristocratic Lightfinger family, who ironically had come into their wealth thanks to their ancestors victories against fiends. In exchange for wealth, power, and protection, the family agreed to betray the city by distracting it from the rise of various threats nearby, namely the Burntbone Horde bandits at Sharpstone Keep, the Mrolgyets Legion hobgoblins and their minions in Frostsilver Mines, the ulitharid Qholillaroon in the Heartcoil Deeps, and the black dragon Vorazidrar in Forestfall Fen.
Kurgolath also had many fiendish servants, notably the barbed devil Garvlin, the cambion Morothec, and the erinyes Tacherani.
During the rule of Open Lord Laeral Silverhand, Kurgaloths plans for Waterdeep were disrupted when Lord Terrathy Lightfinger appeared to try and renege on the familys contract, apparently having become uncomfortable with supporting Qholillaroon. Upon sending his agents to confront the young lord, Kurgaloths scheme became further imperiled when it was discovered that Terrathy had since been replaced by a polymorphed rakshasa named Jurrgal, who held a grudge against the family. The two fiends were unable to compromise given that Kurgaloth wished for the family to continue as his servants while Jurrgal wished to destroy them, and conflict ensued all across the Lightfinger Estate.
The fighting soon attracted the attention of Laeral Silverhand, who sent adventurers to investigate. These adventurers defeated Kurgaloth s minions, drove off Jurrgal, and slew Kurgaloth himself, thus banishing him back to Avernus. Laeral speculated that he was likely to face punishment for so fighting so openly in Waterdeep, where traditionally devils had wielded subtler influence through the nobility. However, she was ultimately uncertain about Kurgaloths true goals, and whether his greater crime in the eyes of his rivals was supporting the Lightfingers or failing to support them enough.
Despite his banishment, Kurgaloth continued to plot against Waterdeep.