Kushigo was a legendary monk and the original owner of the Garb of the Land and Sky, active some time before the late 15 century DR.
Despite Kushigos warrior past, the legendary enchanted items he left behind, including the Garb of the Land and Sky, were all lightweight items of cloth and fabric. The Garb of the Land and Sky was a set of monks garb that allowed the wearers to use the Mountainous Poise and Breezeswift Speed techniques. The Boots of Uninhibited Kushigo strengthened the wearers fists. The Gloves of Uninhibited Kushigo possessed the Kushigos Might enchantment that improved the wearers throwing strength and made them proficient with improvised weaponry. Lastly, the Hat of Uninhibited Kushigo temporarily increased the wearers protection from spells.
Long before the , Kushigo was a warrior who favored the heaviest of plate steels with massive pauldrons that resembled metal stags antlers. Kushigos fearsome appearance and battle prowess promised doom to his enemies. Then, in one bloody battle atop a hill, Irishi, Kushigos best friend, was killed in action and scalped. Irishis bloodied hair was held high above the field of battle by her killer. Kushigo was overcome with rage and grief—he plowed through all of the enemy combatants, leaving behind death and gore, with many ending up skewered by the warriors antler pauldrons.
After the screams of battle and deaths faded away, Kushigo abandoned his famed plate mail and Irishis body. He wandered naked away from the battle and across the countryside, devastated by war. Kushigos mind felt blank, and his soul was filled with grief. Eventually, his mindless wanderings brought the warrior to a wise woman who shared her drinks with the naked man. Drunk and emotional, Kushigo shared his mourning with the woman. She gifted Kushigo light and fine clothes and advised that Kushigo needed time to grieve the loss of his dear friend. He heeded the advice.
Sometime later, after grieving, Kushigo forsook steel and fellowship, taking on the mantle of a monk. By the late 15 century DR, Kushigos enchanted monks garb was his legacy and remained in use in the Western Heartlands and the city of Baldurs Gate.