Kwayothé () was a merchant prince in Port Nyanzaru in the late 15 century DR. She dealt in fruit libations such as wine, ale and tej and goods that aided with life in the jungle, such as oil, perfume, and insect repellent.
She was a beautiful Chultan woman who dressed in fine silks and feathers.
Kwayothé was a thoughtful but sadistic individual who was fond of torture. Her demeanor was so calm as to be vaguely menacing,  She was unafraid to use her beauty and her wiles to manipulate others. although she herself was the type to communicate with her servants with a mere snap of her fingers.
She worshiped Kossuth, the god of fire. As such, she preferred to use hot coals for torture.
As a merchant prince, Kwayothé was involved in the governing of Port Nyanzaru from the palace of Goldenthrone. Her monopoly over a wide array of goods meant that anyone wishing to buy or sell such goods within the city had to go through her or her intermediaries.
She owned a lavish and airy villa located on the lower slopes of Throne Hill in Port Nyanzarus Merchants Ward. This was both an opulent mansion and a veritable fortress, with defenses and mercenary guards in place to deter intruders. Kwayothé decorated her home with bowls of fresh fruit and her servants kept it well-lit with oil lamps and braziers (in honor of Kossuth). The whole villa was filled with the overwhelming smells of perfume and fruit.
Kwayothé always wore a ring of fire resistance.
Kwayothé maintained relations with both male and female consorts who doubled as her bodyguards and were well-trained in unarmed combat.
She maintained a network of spies who provided her with valuable information. and was unafraid to wield them in service of her personal agenda. 
She was one of seven merchant princes in Port Nyanzauru,
She was on good terms with Alastar Bol, the ranking member of the Order of the Gauntlet in her city.
Kwayothé grew up within and spent much of her life in Port Nyanzaru. While she was very poor in her youth, she became quite wealthy in adulthood. Her destitute upbringing instilled in her a hatred of noble-born individuals.
By the late 15 century DR, she was one of the wealthiest individuals in all of Port Nyanzaru, and had many suitors who gave her gifts. This included one yuan-ti agent who gave her a piece of the Dreamers Amulet.
At some point in the late 15 century DR, it was brought to Kwayothés attention by the Ytepka Society that a man named Omala had purchased dancing monkey fruit through black market channels. Her preferred means of punishing him was to send him through Executioners Run.
When the fiendish pirate Idrianne Smoke attacked Port Nyanzaru during the events of the death curse. Kwayothé sought to strike a bargain with the beggar prince Pock-Marked Po to enlist his thieves into service alongside her mercenaries.