Kya Mordrayn was a sorceress and archmage and the leader of a Cult of the Dragon cell operating in Myth Drannor in the late 1360s DR. She created a dracolich out of the dragon Pelendralaar. It was her vision to use the Pool of Radiance underneath Castle Cormanthor to corrupt the lands of Faerûn, starting with Phlan.
Kya Mordrayn wore a red leather bodysuit that left much exposed with a great wing-like collar around her neck. She had a dragon talon in place of her right arm.
Kya Mordrayn was haughty and commanding. She had a dry wit when taunting her enemies. She was highly focused on her goal of domination. She could easily manipulate others with her charm and charisma, but she was vicious in her execution.
Attacking with her dragon claw could cause paralysis, but she could also strike with such force that it broke bones.
Mordrayn once made a pact with fiends, the nature of which is unknown.
Mordrayn bargained with the dragon Pelendralaar and convinced him to become a dracolich. With the Dragon Cult, she conducted the rite to turn Pelendralaar into a dracolich. Together, they invaded the ruins of Myth Drannor. Once in Castle Cormanthor, Kya approached the Protector and, via deceit and empty promises of reviving Myth Drannor to its former glory, they convinced him to hand over a sapphire connected to the Weave. She used the gem and its connection to the mysterious power of the Mythal to amplify her powers, also giving her telepathy. Using the gem, she conquered several bands of drow in the underground and enslaved them, drawing the ire of Nathlilik. She imprisoned some drow, stole their souls, and drained their blood to feed Pelendralaar. Once she was in control of the Mythal she revived the Pools of Radiance (which turned men into skeleton warriors) and spread the Pools into the lands above.
When the first pools started to appear, in the  with one in Phlan, Elminster sent two sets of adventurers into Myth Drannor. The first group went directly into the underground and was nearly wiped out by the cults sorcerers. Athan Stormlake was captured alive as was another fighter. The second group to investigate was brought in by a teleporting doorway. This group included Kestrel, Corran DArcey, Athans wizard sister Ghleanna Stormlake and the fighter Durwyn. The group eventually uncovered how to destroy the sapphire gem, cutting the connection Kya had to the Mythal.