Laezel was a githyanki soldier from crèche Kliir who was unwaveringly loyal to Vlaakith CLVII, the god-queen of her people. After suffering an attack from mind flayers in the late 15 century DR, she embarked on a quest to reunite with her people on the continent of Faerûn on Toril.
The githyanki had distinct black facial features, including a thick black underline and several spots. Laezel had a single, long scar that ran from her forehead, along the left side of her slight nose, and down to the bottom of her lower lip. She had pulled-back dark red hair and wore heavy mail. She weighed .
She was considered a child still among her people.
Laezel appeared to be wholly dedicated to the service of Vlaakith CLVII, the Undying Queen of the githyanki. She did not care for forming genuine relationships with others of her kind. Despite her singular devotion, she had a curious mind, one that led to her explore and better understand the strange land in which she found herself. Her greatest desire was the pursuit of truth of her people, and delivering it all for them to bear witness.
Laezel dreamed of becoming a githyanki kithrak, riding atop her own red dragon mount to carry out Vlaakiths will.
While she was supremely confident in her own martial abilities, Laezel had the tendency to not allow herself to depend on others. She was exceptionally stubborn and seldom listened to others who had wisdom and knowledge that extended beyond her own life experiences. Furthermore, she expressed some sentiments of xenophobia, believing githyanki indoctrination that their people were more disciplined, and far superior to other races found across the cosmos.
As a soldier, Laezel possessed great strength and was exceptionally athletic. She was a skilled warrior, and was considered fierce even by the high githyanki standards. The young gith warrior mastered a battle stance called Hrath ajak, which is a unique technique from her crèche
Like other githyanki, Laezel possessed some psionic powers. She could move and manipulate small objects with the power of her mind at will. Similarly, she had an inherent resistance to psionic attacks.
Laezel armored herself in a suit of githyanki half-plate armor, and preferred to wield a greatsword in battle. She kept with her a set of dragonchess.
Laezel devoted a lot of her youth in her combat training as a young warrior, and eliminated three young peers who dared to challenged her from the same crèche. She also spent quite some time in the library in crèche Kliir, learning much knowledge about worlds and planes beyond her crèche, pursued her goal of ascending within the githyanki military hierarchy.
In the , Laezel embarked from crèche Kliir after Vlaakith directed her servants to find a unique artifact known as the Astral Prism, which was taken to the third planet in the solar system that remained in Realmspace. She was unfortunately taken captive by a mind flayer and was forced into a holding pod inside a unique nautiloid. An illithid inserted an illithid tadpole into her eye. Soon afterwards, the nautiloid was attacked by githyanki dragon riders and severely damaged while fleeing from the attacks. Laezel managed to escape her pod but found out the nautiloid accidentally teleported into the Blood war front line in Avernus, the first layer of the Nine Hells.  She immediately took action with other survivors on the ship who were freed due to the red dragon attacks. They eventually navigated the ship back to the material plane before the ship would crash into Avernus.
After being back to the material plane and surviving the crash, Laezel overheard an encounter between her kin and some tiefling she met near the crash site. She decided to find her kin in a nearby crèche as well as a potential cure for herself. Laezel wholeheartedly believed she would turn into an illithid herself―a ghaik in the gith language―the creature her people despised the most throughout their existence if she did not act quickly. As she understood, the only way to cure herself from the infection was to visit a gith crèche, and undergo "purification" from a githyanki ghustil and their zaithisk. However, she started to notice that her illithid tadpole showed no further symptom development after the infection, which was against everything she had learned about the illithid tadpole. During the pursuit of her cure, Laezel encountered other survivors from the same nautiloid who shared the same unusual illithid tadpole infection with her.