Lamorak Tanthul was one of the Princes of Shade that ruled over the city of Thultanthar within the returned empire of Netheril throughout the 14 and 15 centuries DR.
Unlike some of his more imposing brothers, Lamorak had a lead appearance with a rather gaunt visage. He had eyes that resembled rust-covered iron and long, talon-like fingers.
This was not Lamoraks true appearance however. Like his brothers, all that remained of the shade-princes mortal form was a beating black heart set within a rib cage and adjoining spine, the bones of each appeared entirely black. Lamoraks humanoid appearance was composed of mere wisps of shadow.
He held no strong loyalties amidst the politics of Thultanthar, believing it best that his father the High Prince Telamont Tanthul utilize manipulation to deal with anyone that perceived themselves as his enemy. He preferred to abstain from any outright hostilities.
Prince Lamoraks personal sigil was a white skull outlined in black on a light gray field.
Selected by his father Telamont to administrate the Determinists Guild, Lamorak and his fellows administered tests to each and every shadovar to ensure they could best serve Thultanthar, the City of Shade.
Additionally he was also charged with overseeing the selection process that determined which of the citys shadovar residents were worthy enough to be transformed into shades.
Lamorak had two sons, Tantoras and his younger brother Draethen, a sorcerer of some skill in Thultanthar. Lamorak killed his elder son for plotting against his grandfather, staging his death to appear as an accident.
When the Princes of Shade returned to Toril in the , Lamorak appeared alongside his brothers Brennus and Yder before the Bedine people traveling along the Shoal of Thirst in Anauroch. They attempted to win over the nomadic people but were mistaken for djinn or other fiends by the superstitious locals.
By Tarsakh of the , Lamorak had returned to Thultanthar alongside brothers Brennus and Rivalen. The following month in Mirtul, Lamorak and Clariburnus met with Lady Laeral Silverhand of Waterdeep to offer Thultanthars support the Army of the North, as they marched in relief of the besieged elven city of Evereska. The Shadovar princes were dedicated to eradicating their ancestral foes, the recently-released aberrations known as the phaerimm.
Within hours, the Shadovar withdrew their support from the Heartland Alliance and abandoned their allies on the battlefield, leaving them vulnerable to a phaerimm counterattack. Lamorak returned with Clariburnus and other fellow princes to Thultanthar, to consult with their father, the Most High Telamont Tanthul. Telamont directed Lamorak to form a treatise with the Red Wizards of Thay, and garner new allies for Thultanthar.