Prince Lamruil Moonflower was the youngest son of the late King Zaor Moonflower and Queen Amlaruil Moonflower. He was the thirteenth and last among his royal siblings. The couple founded the hidden elven city Auseriel.
He was strikingly handsome, even for an elf, with black hair and piercing blue eyes. Under Kymils imprisonment during the ocean voyage in 1371 DR, he became thinner and less hale than before.
He was the sunny, charming, spoiled baby of the family. By the time he was no more than thirty or forty, he had taken up adventuring and wenching as avocations. Lamruil was much given to mischief, but well restrained by his devotion and admiration for his sister Amnestria Moonflower. He had scant interest in the art of magic. He was quite outgoing and somewhat frivolous and had a fondness for humans.
He shared his mothers passion for the ancient treasures of elvenkind, and he knew the old legends as well as any seer or loremaster.
left|250px|thumb|Prince Lamruil with his human bride Maura of Evermeet.
Lamruil spent a good deal of his early life adventuring in Faerûn, going as far east as Semphar and Raurin, and gaining considerable experience and understanding of the lands of humans.
Lamruil was the only other person of the House Moonflower to know of Amnestrias four-month pregnancy, of her secret son with Elaith Craulnober.
His father, King Zaor, was assassinated on Ches 2, the , by an agent of a certain sun elf. Later the same year, Amnestria was exiled from Evermeet by the elven nobles for bearing an unborn half-elf child and Lamruils niece, Arilyn Moonblade. Lamruil did not know she went to live in Evereska and worked under a pseudonym at the College of Magic and Arms.
He traveled with Kymil Nimesin in looking for the lost Moonflower children. Under his former swordmaster Kymil, he studied the arts of swordcraft, though he often showed more interest in drinking and wenching. By then, it had been over 25 years since Amnestrias death and more than 40 years since King Zaors death.
In the , Lamruils homeland had a large influx of elves due to the Retreat.
In the , Lamruils niece Arilyn Moonblade temporarily named him the heir of her moonblade if she fell, in front of her childhood friend Ganemede of the lythari. Ganemede then would send the moonblade back to him through a portal on Evermeet.
In the , the 95 year old Lamruil had become a capable fighter and adventurer. He was a wetbehind-the-ears youngster by elven standards. He was not nearly as experienced as his sister or mother, but was the only other known remaining issue of Amlaruils bloodline. If Amlaruil were to die or ascend to Arvandor, and Ilyrana Moonflower were to refuse the throne, the high magi would be placed in the position of passing over Lamruil and choosing another elf (possibly one of their own number) or allowing an inexperienced king to sit on the throne at a time of crisis.
In the , he learned his mother met the Cloakmaster Teldin Moore from Krynn in court.
Lamruil, despite his early habits, successfully drew the Kings Sword. In 1371 DR, he then undertook the task of planting the Tree of Souls given to him by Queen Amlaruil on the mainland. Once planted, it would establish a new elven realm.
Prince Lamruil, along with his teenage human bride consort Maura and a widely varied group of elven adventurers, set out to find a foothold in the most remote, inaccessible, and forbidding lands of northernmost Faerûn. In the , they traveled to the northern reaches of Faerûn and established a hidden city called Auseriel.
On Mirtul 2, the , when Auseriel was besieged by a family of white dragons, Lamruil was urged by his wife Maura to bring the Tree of Souls back to Evermeet. His wife chose to stay behind and lead her rearguard to hold off the invaders. Lamruil returned on Mirtul 4 with a band of elf knights, but found the city abandoned amid a dozen white dragon corpses, and no sign of his wife or her elf defenders. He vowed to rebuild the city and then began a search for his princess.
In the , the high mage Araevin Teshurr visited the rebuilt Auseriel and there he met and befriended Prince Lamruil. They both left Auseriel, which was left to Lamruils seneschal, to look for the lost Princess Maura, being guided by a mysterious prophecy revealed to them by Araevins magic.
Lamuril customarily carried the sword Halakashara, an ancient elven blade he obtained while adventuring in Myth Drannor. He was proficient in the longbow, dagger, footmans flail, horse lance, and spear and specialized in the broadsword. He was also proficient in animal handling, blacksmithing, armorer, bow making and arrow fletching, gambling, and weaponsmithing.