Laskar Nesher was a Waterdhavian noble, patriarch of the Nesher family of Waterdeep from at least the , to at least the , and an owner of an illicit logging empire circa the .
Laskar was fat and he wore his brown waistcoat tight, making him look like a bratwurst sausage. The ill-fitting outfits left his jowls red from chafing.
Laskar was shifty, opportunistic, and mistrustful. He would try and sneak a hidden dagger in when no weapons and magic were allowed.
The nobleman built his sizable illicit logging empire over his lifetime, creating a name for himself and building a dynasty for his son while trying to inspire rebellious Noph to take over the business.
Laskar Neshar was not married and preferred the company of slender female consorts half his age. The latest one was Stelar.
His son Kastonoph "Noph" Nesher felt dismissive and annoyed at his father for spending all of his time and attention on earning a fortune and building a dynasty for his heir. When Noph discovered his father was attempting to blackmail Eidola, Nophs annoyance grew into disgust with his father.
In 1371 DR, on Eleint 17 and 18, Laskar Nesher, his young consort Stelar, and his son Noph were in attendance for the wedding ceremony between the Open Lord of Waterdeep Piergeiron the Paladinson and Eidola of Neverwinter. Soon after arriving at the wedding, Noph gained Khelben Arunsuns favor by giving up his fathers hidden dagger.
At the event, Lord Nesher wanted to attempt a negotiation with the elf nobles of the High Forest over logging rights for his business empire. The second reason for the businessmans presence at the wedding was to blackmail Eidola of Neverwinter over her mysterious past.
A month after the abduction, the majority of Waterdeeps inhabitants thought Piergeiron the Paladinson dead as his spirit was trapped inside a soul gem. In the weeks that led to the Open Lords funeral, Laskar Nesher was among ambitious nobles fighting for Piergeirons position. Neshers stirred public opinion, gave numerous speeches, and even provided bleached oak panels, rails, and bosses for the Palace of Waterdeep, "out of love for the great Piergeiron." The the Nesher furniture was clumsily enchanted with clairaudience/clairvoyance spell. The amateurish attempt amused Khelben Arunsun, and he decided to leave the ensorcelled wood be, instead, Blackstaff changed the magics into transferring back all things twisted with images and sounds of sinister plots and menace. Laskar and his consort Stelar were both present during the funeral ceremony. However, Laskars grab for power was for naught with Piergeirons recovery soon after.