thief
Legov Nairb was a business owner, fence, and former thief in Ravens Bluff in the Vast in the mid–14 century DR. He was the owner of Raven Express, which used trained ravens to carry and deliver small, wax-sealed, scrollcase parcels to various cities throughout northern Faerûn.
The son of an affluent merchant family of Ravens Bluff, the young Legov Nairb had no interest in the family business, finding trading both too dull and too much effort. Instead, he focused on his hobbies of bird watching and eating. He grew to be an overweight boy who nevertheless whiled way hours on rooftops watching birds, particularly the ravens for which the city was named. One day, he spied a piece of metal in a ravens nest and discovered a magical ring that gave him the power to control the birds hed long only observed.
Shortly thereafter, however, the Nairb family tired of their lazy son and kicked him out of their house. Legovs savings quickly ran out and he was left broke and living on the streets. He survived as a thief, using birds to take small valuables out of open windows and stealing just to eat.
Several months later, Legov was found by experienced thief Thorn, who realized his power to control birds. Thorn allowed Legov to stay at his house and took a role as his mentor. They began to work together as thieves, using Thorns skills and Legovs bird-control power to execute some significant thefts and getting rich.
However, Legov tired of thieving after only a year, and started the Raven Express delivery business. Thorn persuaded Legov to use the ravens to smuggle goods as well, and found some thief acquaintances to run branch offices for Legov. Raven Express was active by the 1360s DR and one of the most lucrative fencing operations of Ravens Bluff, even more profitable than its legitimate business.
By 1370 DR, Raven Express had acquired a reputation of being less-than-confidential, and Legov was rumored to partake in some rather unscrupulous business practices.
At Raven Express, Legov greeted customers and prepared letters and small items for delivery. Legov would put a package in a miniature scroll-tube and sealed it with wax to waterproof it, then tied it to the leg of a raven trained to fly to the intended destination, much like a carrier pigeon, then released it. When ravens arrived from other cities, Legov dispatched a runner to deliver the message or package to the recipient.
However, Legovs other service was fencing unique jewelry to other cities where they could be sold without being recognized. The Ravens Express agent would send back the sale price to Legov, who took a 20% commission and sent the rest to the client thief.
Furthermore, despite his assurances of confidentiality, Legov read the messages he was asked to send and would sell any useful information gleaned or use it to blackmail customers. Sometimes, he even altered the messages for well-paying competitors of the customer.
Legov refused to cooperate with Ravenian authorities, for not wanting them to close down his fencing business.
Aged 44, Legov was  tall and weighed , making him rather fat. He had white hair and blue eyes and was often smiling. Though he wore fine clothes, he didnt put a lot of effort into his appearance, making him usually unkempt and with uncombed hair.
He was amiable with customers, but short-tempered and touchy about his weight—those who mocked him would be subjected to an angry rant. Regardless, he was a gourmand who was always eating, even when dealing with customers often talking with his mouth full. He loved bird watching.
Legov made his home on the second floor above the main shop of Raven Express, which was located within an unassuming, two-story building that had once served as a manor house. It stood in a merchant district, on Raphiel Way, within the Altarside neighborhood in the citys Temple District.
Legov was skilled in training and handling animals, and in gem cutting, appraising valuables, forgery, and finding directions.
Legov had two magic rings a ring of protection +2 and a ring of avian control, which was the basis for his business.