human
Leon Onufrio was one of the favorite "children" of the vampire lord Cazador Szarr, and ther father to Victoria Onufrio, who resided in the Szarr Palace of Baldurs Gate in the late 15 century DR.
Leon was a human man with a light skin tone, glowing sinister red eyes of a bloodsucker, and long, straight, light brown hair streaked with white and red. Like his vampiric "siblings," Leons back was carved with scars in the shape of internal runes.
Leon Onufrio was one of the youngest vampire spawns sired by Cazador Szarr, who, before being turned, was a sorcerrer. His still mortal human daughter, Victoria Onufrio, was still a child in the , when Leon was commanded to bring her to reside in the Szarr Palace. Her well-being was one of the tools to ensure Leons position as Cazadors favored spawn – the status that allowed the human child protection from other vampires. Eventually, Victoria attracted the attention of Violet and Dalyria, fellow vampire spawn and "sisters" of Leons. Dalyria became obsessed with curing vampirism, believing it to be nothing more than a disease of the blood. She developed a theory that the cure was hidden in a great amount of blood from a young and strong individual, one strong enough to overwhelm vampirism. She targeted the "pureblooded" Victoria. Unbeknownst to Dalyria, Victoria had a powerful curse placed on her by Leon Onufrio as protection.
Unsurprisingly, a life in a gothic vampire castle only resulted in the childs death. Leon was trying to acquire a quality disguise from Figaro Pennygood of Facemakers Boutique in the Lower City, to smuggle her out of the vampire lords domain when it became known that Cazador was planning to perform a ritual that, allegedly, would help all his children "cheat death." Leon also gave his daughter a copy of Kozakuran Dictionary, so Victoria could learn the words of Kazadors magic that sealed the palace and allowed her to escape if needed. But she was found out and returned to the palace by Dalyria. When Dalyria attempted to drain the child, the wasting curse activated. Dalyria was found puking the cursed blood when Cazador discovered her plan and dragged her away to be punished. The childs body was left in Leon Onufrios chambers, radiating waves of deadly sapping necrotic magic.
Like his siblings, the purpose of Leons existence was a powerful ritual to be performed by Cazador Szarr in 1492 DR. As a result, the vampire spawns were to be destroyed, and their power would transform Cazador into a vampire ascendant. It was unknown if the ritual was successful and Leon was destroyed, or if the ritual never was completed, leaving Leon freed from his dark master to mourn Victoria in peace, or if Leon was slain as the wayward "brother," Astarion Ancunín ended his old torturers unlife.