Dawnbringer Liam Sunmist was a cleric of Lathander in Daggerford around 1370 DR.
When at Morninglow Tower, Liam wore his polished golden armor that dazzled, reflected light off it.
Liam Sunmist was eager to help the members of his temple, as well as adventurers in need of healing. He often was preoccupied by other peoples problems and sought to aid them or at least sought to find a capable adventure to resolve the strife.
Liam held the unshakable conviction that Lathander being blamed for the Dawn Cataclysm was nothing but slander from the "lesser gods" and their followers.
Liam managed the biggest religious center of the duchy, the Moonglow Tower, and was directly supported by the duke. Liam was the only priest in the duchy capable of casting a raise dead spell. He wanted no money for that service, but elite citizens such as the duke and his family received a higher priority.
Liam Sunmist was worried about the young lady that could be found wandering the streets of Daggerford late at night circa 1372 DR. Liam thought Lula Redcap to be a naive woman who unhealthily romanticized vampirism and was seduced by its mystique.
In 1372 DR, Liam Sunmist was gravely worried about the recent plague that broke out to the south of Daggerford, in Gillians Hill, among the farming folk of the region, burning through them at an alarming rate. The affected suffered from a short period of insomnia that caused the fatigue and resulted in high fever, sweating, and delusions. These unpleasant symptoms resulted in the death of everyone infected. Liam theorized that this was an outbreak of vampirism as the graves of those who passed from the disease were exhumed a few days after the funeral. Liam Sunmist was bound to his temple by his duties, but he pleaded for aid with the adventurers who later would be known as the heroes of Daggerford. He recommended seeking out an old healer named Mabda in Gillians Hill, who could tell them more on the strange epidemic.
The Hero of Daggerford discovered that vampires had nothing to do with the plague, which seemed to be a quite mundane sickness to be handled by healers and clerics. The disappearing bodies were blamed on the local myth of Gothma, a giant vampire bat. In reality, a necromancer named Daxiong was stealing the bodies of recently dead victims of the sickness and performed unholy experiments on them. Even though the resolution accounts varied (some claimed that the Hero killed the necromancer, while others said Daxiong was convinced to leave), Liam was thankful. The Dawnbringer bestowed the title of the "Favored of Lathander" onto the Hero and presented amulet of the Morninglord as the reward.
His home in Daggerford was located along Tymora Alley near the Harvest House.
* It was a common rumor in Daggerford that Liam Sunmist harbored a crush on Maerovyna, the druid of Chaunteas shrine.