Littleman was a hero of halfling legend. Although the details of his mythic tale differed, hin cultures across many worlds agreed that he was the first follower of Yondalla and that he spearheaded their societys agricultural revolution.
Littleman was generally pictured as sharing traits of all halfling subraces.
In one rendition of his story, Littleman was characterized as a clever, courageous, kind, and mischievous person, boastful of his ability to outwit any monster of the forest near which he lived.
Dependent on the storyteller, Littleman might have been the first halfling altogether, created by Yondalla from the essences of humans, gnomes, dwarves, and elves. Others, however, placed him at a point when halflings had already been created for a time.
One storyteller placed Littlemans home in a place called the Green Fields, where he built a reputation for himself by thwarting monster attacks using his quick wit, which worked as a deterrent for attacks on halflings, as nobody wanted to risk getting into a conflict with Littleman. Yondalla observed the hero for a time, and eventually presented him with a bargain to unite his scattered kin into villages and communities in exchange for the Nurturing Matriarchs protection for all halflings. After some deliberation, Littleman agreed to the proposal, and went on to spread the goddess mission across his world, and eventually to all worlds with halfling populations.
After a long time spent travelling between worlds, Littleman came upon his old home of Green Fields once again. In an effort to make him fully settle down, Yondalla enhanced the heros burrow to become the perfect home.
Although he liked his newly redecorated home, over time, Littleman began to realize that he was lonely. Not long after this, he became infatuated with a local maiden called Melindy, who, despite already being courted by the farmer Genrill, reciprocated Littlemans feelings. This created no ill will between the brief romantic rivals, however, and Genrill even supplied the wedding feast with a roast beast.
At some point, a string of disasters came to Green Fields. It began with devastating winds that dried out the fields and ruined the grain and fruit harvest. Then, come next spring, the land was flooded by the rain, and an infestation of flies killed the farm animals. What followed was a bitter winter, which covered the land in ice and killed the flowers and grass. Finally, great storms wrecked Littleman and Melindys home, leaving them essentially without possessions. In the face of the dire situation, the couple took solace in the fact that they still had each other.
The halfling child Wellyn had a stuffed toy bear named Littleman, after the mythic hero.