| death     = 261
| daterefs  = 
Llombaerth Starym, sometimes known as the Masked, was a male elf wizard and the Lord Speaker of the Starym House of Cormanthyr.
He had a thin voice, and was coldly handsome.
He was able to teach Elminster of spell-web practice, and later, the lifequench spell. He was also able to collect magical objects from afar with a spell, including ghosts and of embodying ghosts back to flesh through a series of spells.
When in combat, he was able to launch a spell that resembled a white-hot bolt. Another of his spells could compel another to cast spells, even against other targets.
Llombaerth was one of the most prominent members of Starym House and was fierily against the Opening promised by the Coronal Eltargrim. He soon started to conspire to stop the project, forming part of a meeting at Castle Maendellyn in .
That same year, Llombaerth discovered the phantom form of the human armathor Elminster Aumar after the failure of Haemir Waelvor and several Starym mages at slaying Mythanthor. He soon bound the human and, introducing himself only as The Masked, offered him a body and an apprenticeship. Elminster accepted and studied alongside the half-elf Nacacia after she was brought into the fold.
In 261 DR, he finally found the hiding place of Mythanthar, the architect of the promised mythal. In a complex plot, he used his apprentices and even some drow to kill the mage. When Llombaerth later appeared before the Coronal, Eltargrim Irithyl, and framed Elminster for the assassination, he was exposed by the Srinshee and the still-alive Mythanthar.
Llombaerth summoned his forces and started a battle, intending to kill the coronal and all his allies but in the end was killed.
He derived his nickname from his constant use of the artifact known as Andrathaths Mask. He also possessed a storm-sword, and as of , had been for some years in possession of some nondescript device that fit in the palm of his hand, but which he considered to be unstoppable by any Cormathan and capable of slaying Mythanthor.
Though he was known as The Masked, he was not known to the Coronal as such.