| refs5e         = 
Lora Bergauz was a retired sailor and a patron of the Blushing Mermaid in the city of Baldurs Gate in the late 15 century DR.
Lora was a human woman with freckled bronze skin, blue eyes, and red hair. She wore a commoners garb and carried a quarterstaff.
Lora was a cleric who followed a deity of the light domain. As a priest, she had access to such spells as guiding bolt, sacred flame, and spirit guardians. As a cleric of light, she could channel divinity into a radiance of the dawn.
Loras small home was located in the Lower City of Baldurs Gate, not far from the Blushing Mermaid and the docks. Apart from a quarterstaff, Lora owned a unique and powerful rapier she received from her famed mother – Duellists Prerogative. She also wore a potent enchanted amulet – the amulet of Windrider.
Loras mother was Lenore the Fleet, a duelist and a sailor, whose name came from her legwork in battle and not from her naval skills. Loras daughter was Vanra Bergauz, still a child in the late 15 century DR.
Lora Bergauz retired to the city of Baldurs Gate with her daughter after selling her ship – Starborn, a three-masted gaff, a Valor-class vessel, five-gun sixth rate. Despite its damaged condition, with two of the five guns broken, Lora received a bid of 10,000 gold pieces from an anonymous buyer.
In the , during the time Captain Grisly was replaced by the green hag Auntie Ethel as the owner of the Blushing Mermaid, Loras seven-year-old daughter mysteriously disappeared during an evening of drinks there. When she came to her senses, Vanra was missing, and everyone at the Mermaid seemed to believe that the girl never existed and Lora was there alone, meeting and drinking with friends. Distraught and desperate, Lora tried to threaten the bar staff with a dagger, but no one believed her story. She eventually attempted to report the disappearance to Liara Portyr at the Basilisk Gate barracks. The Flaming Fist Blazes investigation uncovered a lead. Still, when Lora arrived at the barracks, Liara Portyr seemed unable to focus on the problem and talked in circles, not willing nor able to comprehend the crime, as if some mind-magics afflicted her. She may have gotten lucky coming across the group called the Absolute Adversaries, who offered to help the distraught mother.
Vanra Bergauz, still a child, was captured by Captain Grisly, or more precisely, Auntie Ethel, and consumed as a grim act of hag procreation. The heroes couldve decided to save the child and, by using the hags bane potion, extracted the child alive and unharmed from the hags belly. By other accords, Vanra was rescued, but the adventurers failed to save the childs life, breaking Loras heart. And the last possibility was the "heroes" taking a grim or cruelly utilitarian approach and allowing the hag to gestate the child into a new hag in exchange for Auntie Ethels help in defense of the Gate during the War with the Absolute.