Lorcan was a cambion and the sole son of the succubus (formerly erinyes) Invadiah.
Lorcan was described as extremely handsome with black eyes and red skin.
To amuse himself, and possibly to gain bargaining power with higher-ranking devils, Lorcan collected warlocks and had a complete set of the Toril thirteen warlocks.
As a thoroughly evil cambion, Lorcan didnt really care about anyone although he seemed to have a grudging affection for Farideh, if only because she completed his Toril thirteen collection. He had a rivalry with his cambion sister Sairche. Lorcan despised and feared his fifty-eight erinyes half-sisters.
thumb|right|250px|Lorcan, facing off against Havilar and Farideh.
In 1477 DR, a young tiefling named Havilar from Arush Vayem was experimenting with magic when she accidentally summoned Lorcan from Malbolge. Lorcan decided Havilars twin sister Farideh would make a better warlock so he tricked her into entering into a warlock pact. The barn in which the summoning took place exploded after Lorcan was dismissed back to Hell. When the villagers discovered what had happened, they expelled the twins and their dragonborn father Mehen from the village.
After their exile from the village, the trio went on the road to work as bounty hunters. Lorcan occasionally dropped in on Farideh to teach her new spells and give her advice, but Mehen was so hostile to the cambion that Lorcan began appearing to Farideh only when she was by herself. In 1478 DR, the twins and their father were pursuing a bounty on the Sword Coast and journeyed to the city of Neverwinter.
Unknown to Lorcan, his mother was involved in the archdevil Glasyas machinations in Neverwinter to start a conflict between the evil deity Asmodeus and the Abolethic Sovereignty. Lorcan preferred to remain out of Glasya and Invadiahs plots but was dragged into the mess when Farideh and Havilar were discovered by a succubus named Rohini, who was working as Invadiahs agent. Lorcan acted to protect Farideh, defeating several of his erinyes sisters and protecting her from Ashmadai cultists. Lorcan was dragged back to Malbolge after the final battle between the Sovereignty and Invadiahs forces. He expected to be executed for his interference in Glasyas plot but was instead only imprisoned in Osseia.