Mae was the proprietor of the Friendly Bat tavern in the village of Womford during the late 15 century DR. She originally ran the tavern-and-inn with her husband Grunnald, but then took over sole proprietorship after he "went missing" under mysterious circumstances.
She was a strong woman who was determined to run her business in spite of several hardships.
200px|Grunnald, made immortal for all time.
Mae was a devoted wife to Grunnald. After his supposed death, she made a loving, if somewhat disturbing, effigy of him, which she proudly displayed in the Friendly Bats taproom. The two had one daughter, a sweet but clumsy girl named Muren.
Sometime during the 1490s DR, the local gang known as the Pale Claw took over the town of Womford and began extorting its citizens. Unbeknownst to Mae, her husband Grunnald faked his own death, and joined the gang as their "Bandit King", helping redirect their crimes towards people beyond the village. Mae was wholly unaware of her husbands misguided attempt to right their wrongs, and mourned her familys loss deeply.
Mae and Muren tried to make ends meet by continuing keep the Friendly Bat open in Womford. They made little in the way of income however, as the Pale Claw resumed its extortion racket over the towns people. Their fortune changed however, when a band of adventurers, namely Edgin Darvis, Holga Kilgore, Simon Aumar, Forge Fitzwilliam, and Thelvyn Kip, came through town. With the few precious silver she had left, Mae hired the adventurers to rid Womford of the Pale Claw once and for all.
300px|A relative happy ending for the dwarven family of Womford.
While somewhat bumbling in their efforts, the adventurers managed to successfully disrupt the bandit gangs operations, and force them to find better prospects elsewhere. They even managed to uncover Grunnalds ruse, and gave him the opportunity to return home. The reunion was a wondrous event at first, before turning south. While Mae seemed embittered about the whole situation, she received one last boon as patron of the adventuring party a porcelain boar figure filled with gold coins and gems.