Maerovyna was a druid of Chauntea in Daggerford around 1370 DR.
Maerovyna was a kind and soft soul who radiated internal peace and was happy with her place in life. She had long black hair.
She carried a staff of striking, a ring of truth, and an enchanted mace.
Maerovyna was served by two pixies, a grizzly bear, and a leopard who were ready to defend her with their lives.
Maerovyna took care of the local shrine to Chauntea, called the Harvest House, together with 14 priests and 30 laborers.
Her home was located just north of the Harvest House along the Farmers Road.
Maerovyna rose to the position of the High Priestess of the Harvest House shortly before the Time of Troubles of 1358 DR. Soon after, she became weary of a slew of murders and child kidnappings in the area. After investigation, she came to believe that these heinous acts were committed by the clergy of Bhaal masquerading as goodly monks of the Stronghold in Liams Hold. Maerovyna ordered a strike on the evil creatures. Druids, clergy of Chauntea, and elves of the Misty Forest were led into battle by ranger Conway. The followers of Chauntea lost the battle, and most of the forces were killed. Conways body was missing from the battlefield, and his loss greatly troubled the High Priestess many years later. However, the Bhaalist evil stopped with the death of their deity during the Time of Troubles.
In 1372 DR, Maerovyna was troubled by a grain shortage in Daggerford and was desperately looking for a mercenary or an adventure to aid her, with the citys militia being unavailable and understaffed, she resorted to find paid help. Maerovyna was well-connected and had sources around Daggerford that informed her of a group of adventurers that recently arrived in the city and was investigating the Dukes recent mysterious death. She reached out to them asking to investigate Fernd Krip, the owner of a mill that was supplying Daggerford. She was worried that something couldve happened to the mill as the production was slowing down. Daggerford could face a serious famine crisis.
Maerovyna told the adventurers that the last time she saw Fernd, he was heartbroken due to his lover marrying another, which was another reason to worry about the recent shortages. Once the Hero of Daggerford and the rest of the adventurers reached Fernds watermill in the Eastern Farmlands they were confronted with the raving mad miller. After doing some digging, the adventurers found out that the miller was driven mad by a slaad masquerading as a kindly monk. Loru was planning on infecting the mills product with a plague of his making, creating an army of his demonic kin. The plan was stopped and the slaad slain. Maerovyna was glad the miller was alive and sent one of her acolytes to cure Fernd Krips broken mind.