Malus Thorm was a surgeon and servant of the goddess Shar, who operated out of the House of Healing in the town of Reithwin throughout the 15 century DR.
The once-noble elfs body had become twisted both by the darkness of the shadow-cursed lands and what appeared to be self-performed surgeries and mechanical "enhancements". His undead flesh was gray and pocked with boils and bruises. He had replaced both of his arms with mechanical claws that had scalpels for fingers. Undead flesh and metal extensions had been grafted to his legs, making him unnaturally tall.
He wore a black tailcoat trimmed with gold, complete with padded upper sleeves and a ruffled collar. Over his brow he wore a leather harness that supported goggles with dark lenses, and magnifier that resembled Shars holy symbol.
Malus believed his surgical work, really his twisted experimentation, was the true expression of Shars will.
If forced to engage a foe in combat, Malus would utilize his four instruments of loss a bonesaw, a syringe, a trepan, or the application of leeches.
Malus wore around his neck a surgeons subjugation amulet, a necklace that could be used to paralyze his patients when necessary.
He owned a copy of the book Surgery and Physiology A Sharrans Primer, a medical dissertation written from the perspective of Sharran physicians. He also kept within his office a pair of poisoners gloves.
300px|Malus Thorm and his pupils in the House of Healing.
Malus Thorm was General Ketheric Thorms uncle.
Malus was served by four undead pupils, Sisters Anya, Geanne, Hunna, and Vanessa, among others. He was not wholly confident in their abilities, and believed the incisions they made were not exactly precise. In truth they were little more than outright butchers.
In the late 14 century DR Sister Anna Lidwin wrote an urgent letter to Baldurs Gate seeking aid as she could not dare argue with Malus Thorm who ordered to heal only the Dark Justiciars and conducted experiments on the others.
There was a constant dispute between Malus and Ketherics advisor Balthazar, as the both needed corpses for their own purposes. The necromancer Balthazar confiscated the most valuable cadavers providing Malus with separate body parts in best case as follows from the Surgeons Tissue and Organ Register found in the House of Healings Morgue.
As of the late 15 century DR, Malus and his nurses operated out of the House of Healing in the Shadow-cursed lands. He spent much of his time "experimenting" on innocents that either wandered, or were brought against their will, into his hospital. Malus attempted to teach his students the finer arts of what he referred to as surgery, but was ultimately unsuccessful.
Malus Thorm concept art.jpg|Malus Thorm concept art.