Mantorra Daramos, better known by her alias Mantorra Hennaflame, was a Thayan invoker active in the city of Bezantur as of mid-to-late 14 century DR.
She was a plain-looking young woman possessing a natural skill for arcane magic.
Mantorra acted like a spoiled brat she was self-centered, detested those of lower rank, and was prone to be cruel to people who annoyed or or to toy with people she found amusing. However, she was neither power-hungry nor wholly evil, and possessed the capacity to grow and mature beyond the cruel tendencies she had internalized as a member of the Thayan elite. She was motivated to live an interesting life and to make a name for herself without resting on the laurels of her noble family name, however she was also unafraid to use or manipulate familial connections if needed. She had little interest in political intrigue, and thus did not actively aspire toward becoming a full member of the Red Wizards despite her passion and aptitude for magecraft.
Although she was ostensibly a devotee of Kossuth, the god of fire, she had little interest in the faith except as a diversion from an otherwise boring life. She did, however, find flames and fire to be mesmerizing, and would spend hours gazing into fires as she contemplated humanity.
Her family, the Daramos, was a relatively new member of the Thayan nobility founded by her father, Milsantos Daramos, who was the Tharchion of Thazalhar. 
She was Milsantoss only daughter, and while she made great use of her familys connections to establish herself, she subsequently avoided using her family name and instead preferred to use the surname "Hennaflame".
The main connection she made using her fathers influence was to become the apprentice of Aznar Thrul, the Tharchion of the Priador and the Zulkir of Evocation.
The young Mantorra found life as Aznar Thruls apprentice to be boring. By , she had joined the Order of Crimson Warlocks to seek more interesting diversions, and had begun to spend more and more time at the Flaming Brazier temple.