Marckarius Millithor was the elderboy of House Millithor in the 14 century DR.
Marckarius had a somewhat unusual look for a drow, as his hair was very short he found this gave him an advantage in combat. The muscular elderboy was not as tall or lithe as a typical drow, though his arms were much longer than usual.
His clothing was of a very high quality, and was woven with thread of silver and even platinum.
The elderboy of House Millithor liked to be different to others from Menzoberranzan, and indeed, he was. Though he was both chaotic and wicked, he was a lot more sociable then others and enjoyed light-hearted pleasures. He was particularly careful of how he dressed.
The son of KiWillis Millithor was exceptionally loyal, particularly to his mother, whom found him to be of very high value. In return, she granted him privileges and freedom far beyond the norm for a drow male. Even though he was wary of dealing with other houses and priestesses, his freedom allowed him to be assertive, even to the priestesses of his own house.
Marckariuss desire was to grow old and be granted ultimate freedom, and for his house to survive and flourish.
This heavily-armored and strong drow warrior was a skilled combatant, and was able to throw daggers up to .
Marckarius wore an expensive cloak, a shirt, leggings, a piwafwi, boots of elvenkind, and an amulet of proof against detection and location, which he kept hidden. To armor himself, he wore chainmail +3 and a buckler +1.
His primary weapon was a longsword +4, and his secondary weapons were considered to be a shortsword +2 and a pair of sleeved daggers +2.
In addition to weapons and armor, Marckarius was careful to bring with him potions kept in metal flasks, themselves kept in a back pouch. These potions were of extra-healing, invisibility, and flying.
The drow also possessed a great worth of gold and jewelery totalling nearly 10,000 gp. His rare jewelery consisted of emerald and ruby rings, earrings made of different types of gems, and a diamond necklace. He only wore these on social occasions, and never in battle.