Marlel, known as the The Dark Blade of Doom, was an infamous assassin of Scornubel in the mid–14 century DR. He was a retainer for the Cult of the Dragon, but also a Harper.
Marlel was pleased by the slaying of malevolent mages and potential rivals. He seized short-term pleasures wherever the opportunity rose Also, he was cautious and hard to catch unaware.
Not merely an ace with the blade, Marlel had a number of skills, including disguise and sewing, though his expertise regarding blandreths was limited. A number of wenches attested he did everything well. The Dark Blade of Doom was also capable of wielding wands.
Marlel was on retainer for the Cult of the Dragon, through Thoadrin. He claimed to have business with Orthil Voldovan.
Marlel hid daggers on his person. He wore a ring that carried spells, and always hid a few needles and waxed thread on a shoe. He was furnished with a number of "masks", which could be damaged in combat, and which cost at least five quara. He also carried on himself an armorweave bag. The assassin was paid a hefty retainer by the Dragon Cult and bore a Harper pin.
Marlels sly expression somewhat resembled Torms. He was black-haired, when out of costume.
His reputation as the Dark Blade of Doom had reached the Red Wizards of Thay,
Marlel claimed to have worked with a Red Wizard in Triel prior to 1357 DR. By the end of that year, he had been in Scornubel for about five seasons, through which hed become a retainer for the Cult of the Dragon. He had at some point delivered "doom" upon a number of Sembians, presumably during those five seasons.
Late in the , Marlel met with Thoadrin, a Dragon Cult operative in Scornubel. Along the way, he was attacked by three people, and slew all of them. Marlel was able to correctly ascertain he was going to be ordered to hunt for spellfire his payment consisted of fifty Calimshan rubies, with fifty more to be paid upon completion.
He caught up with the spellfire wielder Shandril Shessair in the Scornubian inn known as the Sun over Scornubel, assisting her when a number of Zhentarim swordsmen tried to capture her. After aiding her in her escape, he led her towards the Stormy Tankard, where he brought her and her husband, Narm Tamaraith, to the local Harpers, and then to an ambush with numerous wizards. They employed spells against Shandril and Narm, knocking him out, but then Shandril slew them all. Marlel was able to convince her he had no part in the ambush however the laying of Marlels ambush was known to Tornar, who later reported to Belgon Bradaskor that it had failed. The Dark Blade of Doom showed her to her room, and then pointed out Orthil Voldovan, whom she was seeking, in the common room of the inn.
Marlel entered Orthil Voldovans caravan disguised as a religious pilgrim paying for covered passage to Waterdeep, concerned with his own piety and unable to use holy magic, who had nonetheless declined to name the god that was the reason for his pilgrimage. While in the caravan, he lured Haransau Olimer and his assistant to another wagon, which he destroyed with a couple spells, killing Haransau in the process he then impersonated Haransau Olimer. He was able to stitch his fake belly back together quickly, successfully fooling Arauntar and Beldimarr with his disguise.
During his time impersonating the blandreth-dealer, Marlel spread some rumors to make obstacles for the other rogues in the caravan, bringing up the clinking of the wagon on which Mhegras and Sabran traveled to ensure they were searched. While spying, he bore witness to Narm slaying a man who attempted to ambush him in the night Marlel considered the dying man to be a Thayan agent. Later, Marlel slew a Zhentarim disguised as a merchant during one ambush. During another ambush, Stlarakur, a Zhentarim priest of Bane, thought to take refuge in Haransau Olimers wagon. Marlel took the opportunity to brain the man with a blandreth, and left his body at the wagons entrance, with one arm outside to deter anyone else from taking refuge there.
While the caravan remained at Triel, the Dark Blade of Doom was contacted by a voice out of thin air he chose to heed it, and it gave him a mission. Once the caravan arrived at Triel, Marlel took a moment to meet with Hulrivior and his underlings he introduced himself as having worked with a Red Wizard sometime prior in Triel, and offered them spellfire. While their guard was down, he threw a gem into a flame hovering on the table atop the meeting room, leading to a terrible explosion, which almost certainly killed Hulrivior, per Marlels understanding. He then used wands to execute any survivors, claiming it was another Red Wizard that hired him to slay them. Hesperdan claimed responsibility for Marlel being in possession of such magic.
Marlel attempted to wield an unspecified wand of some flame power against Shandril while she was undergoing meltdown. One of his spell blows was blocked by Mirt, who threw himself in the way this won Shandril enough time that she was ready for his next attack, and returned spellfire along its way, killing Marlel instantly.