Mendryll Belarod was a young half-elven bard who traveled Faerûn widely in the 14 century DR, getting into misadventures and writing accounts of the people and places he encountered.
Mendryll had long blonde hair and green eyes. He wore a perpetual smirk.
He was a gregarious and charming person, and got increasingly cocky and bold with the opportunity to show off. He was very flirtatious with women when given the chance.
He claimed to find Cormyr boring and limiting due to its stable and lawful nature, though it didnt stop him from enjoying himself there.
Despite appearing a dandyish wastrel, he was a proficient swordsman and was perfectly capable of protecting himself.
His bardic abilities tended towards the defensive and utilitarian, to better assist his travels and keep himself alive.
He possessed the mundane yet specialized talents of being able to belch the Cormyrean Royal Anthem and impersonate famous people such as Elminster and Piergeiron Paladinson.
As a frequent traveler who found or made trouble wherever he went, Mendryll was well-prepared for dangerous situations. To keep himself alive, he used bracers of defense, a powerful ring of protection, a flame tongue longsword, and a harp of charming. He also had a Bucknards everfull purse, a regular harp, and a riding horse.
In 1367 DR, he wrote a travelogue detailing his exploration of the Moonsea, repeatedly getting into trouble as he explored each city. He earned a potential enemy in Thentia when he unintentionally ruined the elven maiden Elaesse Loridiels relationship with her unicorn.
In the , he appeared at King Azoun IVs birthday party at Thistleflame Keep in Suzail with, providing music and entertainment for the event. In the process of singing a shockingly song about two Sembites, a dryad, and a harpy, he terribly offended a group of Sembite adventurers, the Stag Runners, who ambushed him later that night.
Later that year, he found himself in the Stonelands pursuing rumors involving the Four from Cormyr, Tower of Ruin, and the Starburst Swords. Hoping to get some new tales out of it, he pointed a group of adventurers towards the likely locations with the promise of fabulous treasure. He then realised the scale and danger of the adventure he had just prompted, and brought along Rhyn Mournsoul, who sought a tragic and hopefully painless death. Meeting the adventurers at the ruins of Darkenshield, he fought alongside them against Lord Vorik Ariss small army.