Mifano was a senior Selûnite priest responsible for the external affairs and dealings of Moonshadow Hall in the city of Yhaunn in the late 14 century DR.
Mifano always dressed well, to the point of being a dandy, including wearing a light-blue half-cape. He had silver hair since childhood, which gave him the appearance of wisdom and maturity he might not have actually had. After earning the higher office of representing the temple, he wore the blade Waxing Crescent.
He was a gregarious, witty, and chatty person, with a talent for putting others at ease and defusing situations. As a youth he was clownish and irresponsible, but he gained a measure of sensibility as an adult, though he was still shamelessly flirty when given the chance.
He had a rivalry and personality clash with fellow Selûnite Velsinore as they competed for influence in the temple and hoped to succeed Moonmistress Dhauna.
Though he generally liked Feena, their relationship became increasingly strained when she asserted herself over him as Moonmistress-Designate when she returned to Moonshadow Hall in 1373 DR. Despite the growing hostility, he generally managed to keep his composure and work with her, and considered her lycanthropy to be a blessing of Selûne rather than a curse.
Mifano was responsible for overseeing how Moonshadow Hall dealt with the outside world, handling the security of the main gate, as well as the official interactions with other temples and the city at large. He was also heavily involved in personally soliciting donations, negotiating favorable deals, and generally representing the temple, which often involved attending parties and get-togethers with wealthy benefactors.
Mifano grew up at Moonshadow Hall alongside the other priests and acolytes. In 1359 DR, when they were both fifteen, he was beaten up by the werewolf and fellow junior priest Feena Archwood for presenting her with a collar and leash as a gift.
By 1373 DR, he had earned the position of representing the temple to outsiders, one of the most prestigious and powerful roles in the temple. 
When Feena Archwood arrived with Dhaunas summons to act as Moonmistress-Designate, he and Velsinore were united in opposition to the decision. On one night, he came across Keph Thingoleirs torture of Lyraene in the Stiltways, interrupting it with command and fear spells, and applying healing magic to save Lyraenes arm. He then went on to his appointment with Lady Monstaed and informed her of what had happened, allowing Variance to herself quickly intervene and modify Lyraenes memory of the events. 
When Feena fled Moonshadow Hall after infecting Dhauna with lycanthropy, Mifano joined the other priests in pursuing her. Misled by Julith Harkspur and Keph using Iraelathes Escape, he pursued them on a lengthy chase to Ordulin, catching them at sunrise. Though disgusted by Kephs Sharran holy symbol, Mifano ensured they were both treated relatively fairly until they could be brought back to Yhaunn.
As Feena and Julith Harkspur unravelled the events taking place in Yhaunn, they determined that either Mifano or Velsinore were working with the cult of Shar. Interrogating the pair under a moonlit zone of truth, Mifano admitted that he had shared some confidential details with Lady Monstaed, not realizing that she was a Sharran agent. When Velsinore was revealed as a heretic and a traitor, she maimed him with Waning Crescent as a distraction, incapacitating him while the temple was attacked by Variances forces. Afterwards, he decided to stay in his present position, abandon his ambitions, and support Julith Harkspur as the new Moonmistress of the temple.