Miirym, known as the Sentinel Wyrm, was a silver dragon, and the most peculiar guardian of Candlekeep.
In life, Miirym was a silver dragon, but when she died, powerful magic gone awry kept her bound to the material plane, known as an incorporeal sentinel. According to the wizard Elminster Aumar, she appeared as a floating spectral pair of jaws
Miirym loved green, growing things and, even after 1500 years in captivity under Candlekeep, had a vivid memory of many plants, the geography of much of the Sword Coast, and the lightning storms that she used to enjoy flying through.
As a result of her being so lonely and secluded, Miirym would usually rather talk than fight, and traded tales to hear jokes or information about current events in Faerûn, although to hear of these things that she could no longer be a part of saddened her.
Her main aspiration was to somehow regain her body and be free to fly in Torils skies once again. She was cynical of those who promised to help her accomplish this, however, as so many had tried and failed during her long existence, but despite this, she never tired of discussing the possibility.
Despite Miiryms lack of sanity, she was incredibly coherent and aware of her given task of protecting Candlekeep, and anyone seeking to take advantage of her mental state by attempting to trick or ambush her would receive the full extent of her fury.
Miirym passed her endless days patrolling the tunnels and passages under Candlekeep, idly widening passages and enlarging rooms using the few rock-shattering or matter-teleporting spells known to her, while searching for possible intruders. She would first try speaking with such trespassers in order to understand their intentions, or sometimes she would remain silent and hidden, lurking nearby to learn as much as she could about them before revealing herself. Even if they resorted instantly to violence, she would attempt to converse with them while fighting.
She liked to leave the remains of would-be intruders as a warning, often showing them off to parties of intruders to deter them from any similar attempts to steal from Candlekeep. However, in her addled mind, all books belonged to Candlekeep, and she would suffer no claims to ownership if books were openly carried in her presence, be it the intruders own spellbooks or other personal writings, and she insisted they be given to her so she could put them in their "rightful" place.
Sometimes, as an especially cruel and unusual punishment, a monk was sent to spent some time with Miirym.
Miirym was known to have a vicious bite, as well as being able to use cold, necrotic, and paralyzing breath weapons. She had the ability to teleport to a location that she could see within 120 feet, invoke a Frightful Presence, or cast dancing lights or mage hand at will. She could also cast the spells detect magic, detect thoughts, dispel magic, locate creature, dispel evil and good, and wall of force a limited number of times each day, requiring no material components. 
Her body healed itself automatically, although this ability was temporarily disabled if she took damage from a magical weapon or spell. She was resistant to acid, fire, lightning, and thunder damage, and completely immune to cold, necrotic, and poison damage.
Miiryms vision was far superior to that of mortal beings, with darkvision out to a range of 120 feet, blindsight out to 60 feet, and x-ray vision which allowed her to see through solid matter out to a range of 60 feet. This special vision could not penetrate more than 5 feet of stone, 3 inches of common metal, 10 feet of wood or dirt, or any thickness of lead.
Miirym patrolling the catacombs of Candlekeep.
Miirym was part of a large family of silver dragons who ranged across North Faerûn, which at that time was comparatively dragonless. Circa the , they went their separate ways to establish their own lairs and domains.
Miiryms lair was in a lone dark pillar just offshore from what later became the hamlet of Ulgoths Beard. The lair and her hoard were unremarkable the lair a series of naturally formed twisting caverns that had belonged to a mated pair of wyverns before she slew them and claimed it for her own her treasures no more than coins and silver bars that were lost when the sea stack her lair was located atop slid into the sea in the .
Her domain covered the coastal lands between the High Moor and the Sea of Swords (as far offshore as the island of Mintarn), south as far as the Cloud Peaks, and north to Mount Helimbrar.
However, one day while hunting near Candlekeep, Miirym broke into the library to find treasures for her hoard. In the process, she devoured several scholars and destroyed many irreplaceable tomes. As punishment, the powerful archmage Torth used his magic to bind her in service to the keep, which she had to protect for twenty years. However, fifteen years later Torth died, and his spell was so powerful that nobody was able to break the magic binding Miirym to Candlekeep.
Thus Miirym was trapped in her servitude, and although she kept to the letter of her terms, over time she became more savage in protecting the fortress, slaying intruders with no remorse, and Candlekeep gained its reputation of utter impregnability.
She was eventually worn down through age and the constant attacks on the keep, and after elaborate spell attacks made by a band of Calishite wizards in the , and the , Miirym died.
However, even as her flesh sloughed away and her bones turned to dust, Torths powerful magic kept her bound still, animated and sentient, but now undead and somewhat less than sane. What remained was a malevolent but diligent, invisible guardian force. Afraid of their own guardian, the monks hired mages to destroy her, but they were also unable to undo Torths magic however, they did manage to bind her within closer proximity to Torths casket. It was only by the sacrifice of a group of monks that the casket was moved down into the labyrinthine complex of caverns and passages beneath Candlekeep, where Miirym remained, guarding the keep from below against would-be intruders.