Mimir the Wise was a mountain giant
Mimir stood somewhere around  tall, possibly more, His hair was wild and windblown, whilst his beard was unkempt and white in hue. He garbed his body in ragged cloth and skins.
Mimir had a demented mind, but an immense wealth of knowledge and wisdom. He sometimes liked to toy with the people that came to use his well, playing dumb as if he didnt know what they were going on about.
The exact powers that Mimir possessed were unknown, though whatever they were put him on par with the archdevils of the Nine Hells and the Lady of Pain. He also knew far more arcane magic than Torils greatest mage, Elminster.Mimir the Wises statblock in the Planes of Chaos boxset states his origin as being a proxy, though the text does not specify who he is a proxy of. One possibility is the god Mimir, though On Hallowed Ground states that Mimir is a dead power.
A massive ladle, crudely crafted from a fallen branch of Yggdrasil, was wielded by Mimir like a club.
Mimir lived in a cave within one of the two large hills that stood next to the Well of Knowledge. As it was the only thing in life he treated with any sort of reverence or respect, Mimir was dedicated to protecting the Well. Stopping all who would attempt to steal its power keys, spell keys, or drink from its waters, demanding a payment for all three. Usually he would pay no great heed to those that werent either a powerful giant or a member of the Norse pantheon, resorting to killing them, though he was willing to do business with anyone that presented him a favor coin as ownership of one showed that the individual seeking his services was powerful to some degree. Whenever someone asked a question instead of the chance to drink from the Well of Knowledge, Mimir would drink from the Well himself and then answer their query.
In terms of the planar philosophical factions, Mimir the Wise was considered to be a member of the Fated.
While the average mountain giant had a lifespan of only one hundred years, Mimir lived for untold thousands of years old. Over the course of that lifespan he drank from the Well of Knowledge, accumulating vast stores of lore over time. He also developed the concept of favor coins as an alternative source of payment to sacrifices, desiring to obtain favors from deities.
In the late 14 century DR, a group of adventurers from the city of Ravens Bluff on the Prime Material world of Toril went on an epic journey across Asgard, Jotunheim, and Yggdrasil in search of the Well of Mimir so they could learn how to destroy a powerful githyanki artifact known only as the Great Machine. Their benefactors, the Ministry of Art, knew little about Mimir but said that the knowledge it held was far greater than that contained within the halls of Candlekeep.
Eventually the heroes managed to reach the Well and, recognizing that Mimir was far too powerful for them to ever beat in combat, negotiated for the use of the Well with favor coins they had earned over the course of their journey from the goddess Sune and either the frost giant Brimir or Queen Titania of the Seelie Court. Once all the coins they had were given away Mimir waved the adventurers off, threatening to eat them without a second thought if they ever returned. Whether or not any of the adventurers sacrificed an eye, asked for a spell key, or asked for a single draught from the well was unknown.