Minsc, also known as the Stone Lord by the criminals of Baldurs Gate, was a kind-hearted&mdashbut rather addled&mdash Rashemaar warrior that enjoyed many adventures across the Sword Coast and beyond. He joined many adventuring parties throughout the 14 and 15 centuries DR, including the Heroes of Baldurs Gate. Minsc was famously known for his habit of talking to a hamster called Boo, who he believed was a miniature giant space hamster, despite no one else ever witnessing any evidence of this.
Minsc was a large, bald human. His face was partially covered in a purple tattoo.
Minsc was very capable physically but mentally much more limited. Besides talking to the hamster Boo, whom he believed to be a miniature giant space hamster, he had a very simplistic view of the world and was often quick to decide that someone was evil and should be attacked. Fortunately, he was also kind by nature and was determined to be a hero. He was somewhat unstable and prone to flying into a rage,In game terms, he has a special ability that resembles a barbarians or berserkers rage. as if his witch were being threatened.
He espoused either a neutral or chaotic version of a morally good outlook on life.
While Minsc often favored hunting gnolls and later vampires early in his adventuring career, by the 1480s DR, he stated his favored enemy as simply "evil".
It was believed that Minsc had suffered significant head trauma sometime in his past it was not known what his mental capacities were before that, but he mentioned that it had happened around the time he befriended Boo.
350px|Minsc enjoying some peaceful time with Boo and Nerys.
Minscs most trusted companion was Boo, whom he knew had a brilliant mind and brave heart.
Minsc was wholly dedicated to the protection of his traveling companion and "witch" Dynaheir. He believed her to be a brilliant woman, that would lead him to great glory. and the elven sorceress Delina.
The brave hero even found himself an "arch-enemy" in Krigar the Courageous, an oni mage that masqueraded as a competing hero in Baldurs Gate.
Minsc hailed from the far-off land of Rashemen. His mother was described to be a woman with a head of wild red hair, and his father had a red beard which was equally bushy. As a young man he hoped to gain admittance into the Ice Dragon berserker lodge. To prove his worth, he undertook his dajemma traveling alongside the young witch of the Wychlaran, Dynaheir, serving as her bodyguard. Dynaheir led Minsc in their travels, making their way to the western lands of Faerûn. At some point in the , the pair became separated as Dynaheir was abducted by a rather ferocious band of gnolls. Minsc traveled to the nearby town of Nashkel looking for heroes to help him save his charge.
Following the events surrounding the iron crisis on the Sword Coast, Minsc and Dynaheir settled in Baldurs Gate for a short time. Dynaheir wanted to stay in the region to investigate rumors regarding the Shining Lady, Caelar Argent. Some time later, when the hero Abdel Adrian was secretly released from prison for murder, Minsc joined him in his travels, accompanied by Dynaheir, the young mage Imoen, the Harpers Jaheira and Khalid, and of course Boo. The group was ambushed in the forest and imprisoned in a dungeon beneath Athkatla. Several members in their party were tortured, and both Khalid and Dynaheir were killed.
In Minscs eyes he caused a failure that resulted in the death of Dynaheir. He was distraught over the loss of his witch, who had been murdered in front of his eyes, and his failed dajemma.Depending on player choices, it is possible that Minsc will later adopt as his "new witch" Aerie, another playable character in the game.It is possible to play Minsc in Baldurs Gate II Throne of Bhaal by summoning him within the Pocket Plane. He was believed to have escaped the dungeon at the same time as his allies Abdel and Imoen.In the Baldurs Gate II Shadows of Amn novelization, Minsc is encountered in Irenicuss dungeon (for unknown reasons) and escapes it along with Abdel Adrian. He has red hair and does not play a significant role in the rest of the story.
Upon his return to Rashemen, the Iron Lord declared Minscs dajemma complete. However, Minsc himself disagreed, believing that it could never be complete due to Dynaheirs death. Despite the Iron Lords offer to make him the chosen champion of the land, Minsc declined, having already sworn his pledge to his pet hamster, Boo. This led to a combat challenge from the Iron Lord, which Minsc accepted. After defeating the Iron Lord, the council of witches provided Minsc with provisions and suggested that he continue his adventures.
250px|The Beloved Ranger, a statue of Minsc erected in the Wide in Baldurs Gate.
Around the , the merchant Orburt Lewel ordered the construction of a  statue and pedestal in the Wide in honor of Minsc, who had saved Lewels life. The statue, known as the Beloved Ranger, depicted Minsc cupping Boo in his hands. It was a popular landmark and meeting point in the busy commercial district. What the public did not know was that this statue was not a mere piece of art it was actually Minsc and Boo themselves, petrified in a mysterious ambush while they were in the citys slums at a vendor while looking for Boos favorite nuts. The duo remained in this state for an unknown period, their stone form becoming an unwitting monument to their deeds.
In the , a group of teenagers vandalized the Beloved Ranger statue, breaking off its hands and Boo. The vandals were later apprehended and the statue was fixed.
Sometime in the 1480s DR, the Beloved Ranger was accidentally struck by a wild magic surge caused by the wild mage Delina, as a result of an attempt to cast a spell at an attacking gargoyle. The surge dispelled the petrification effect, returning Minsc and Boo to life. Fleeing from the city watch, Minsc, Boo, and Delina joined up with the thieves Krydle and Shandie, and eventually uncovered  the schemes of a local Cult of the Dragon cell. Coran, now a member of the Parliament of Peers, was the only person who recognized Minsc as anyone but someone who was dressed like the statue.
300px|Minsc receiving a tarokka reading from Madam Eva.
Some time later, Minsc and his companions, who became known as the Heroes of Baldurs Gate, while working as sellswords in the Lower City district of Baldurs Gate, helped defend a temple of Kelemvor against an attack of werewolves who had broken in. The werewolves fled after stealing the temple relics in search of a magic amulet and kidnapping Nerys, a cleric of Kelemvor. Upon chasing them back to their lair with the help of Boo, Minsc and his companions were swept up by mists and transported into the land of Barovia.
While in Barovia, Minsc had his fortune partially read by Madam Eva, but stormed out of her tent after she predicted that he would fail in destroying the evil that permeated those lands. The companions also briefly interacted with the wereraven Davian Martikov after saving his son Adrian from an attack of ghouls and spent the night at the Wizard of Wines winery.
The following day, the companions proceeded to Vallaki, which was holding the Parade of Purple decreed by the burgomaster Vargas Vallakovich. During the parade, they were attacked by Strahd. After narrowly surviving a confrontation with Strahd and his vampire and werewolf minions, the badly wounded companions managed to escape Barovia through the activation of the amulet by Delina and were transported back to Faerûn somewhere in the Spine of the World, about half a days travel away from Fireshear.
300px|Minsc wasnt the only hero with a larger-than-life presence.
In the mountains, the weary group was ambushed by ogres, but was helped by Saarvin, a dragonborn of gold dragon ancestry. Despite their victory against the ogres, Minsc, demoralized by the defeat and narrow escape from the clutches of Strahd, felt unworthy and a shadow of his former self,
Soon after the groups recovery in Fireshear, the city was attacked by a group of frost giants led by Lord Gryttmort. The giants were holding the white dragon Nylanthe captive. The adventurers, helped by a detachment of griffon riders trained and commanded by Dasharra Keldabar, defended the city from the attack, while Krydle set Nylanthe loose to attack her former captors and force them to break off the attack.
Interrogating Fjroul, a captured frost giant, Shandie learned that Gryttmort planned to overthrow Storvald and become a jarl in order to ascend in the broken Ordning, by stealing an orb of dragonkind from Nylanthes lair. In possession of the orb, Gryttmort would muster an army of giants and dragons and conquer the North. Upon reaching Nylanthes lair to warn her of the impending threat, the dragon revealed that Gryttmort was holding her eggs hostage in exchange for her cooperation and agreed to help the group if they retrieve her eggs. However, the giants attacked and used the orb to command Nylanthe to collapse the cave on Minscs group.
After escaping, the group then flew to Svardborg to reclaim the orb on Dasharras griffons, whith whom Minsc got along especially well. However, upon attempting to recover Nylanthes eggs, the group was ambushed by the giants. In the fight, Krydle successfully stole the eggs, while Shandie separated the orb of dragonkind from Gryttmort, releasing his hold on the white dragons. At the same time, Boo accidentally drunk a potion of growth and temporarily became a giant-sized miniature giant space hamster. Victorious, the group returned to Fireshear to celebrate.
350px|Minsc battling his "arch-enemy", the false hero and oni mage Krigar.
Upon the groups return to Baldurs Gate, they each went their separate ways for a while, leaving Minsc to dispense justice with only Boo by his side. Minsc soon met a daring adventurer, Krigar the Courageous, who refused to work alongside the ranger and his hamster when the Blades of Burgust once again threatened the city. When Krigar slew the Blades and revealed himself as an oni mage, Minsc found who he believed was the true villain and dealt him a devastating blow that made him vanish in a cloud of smoke.
After Minsc and the heroes reunited shortly thereafter, they soon discovered that their friend Nerys had been inflicted with lycanthropy. They brought to Father Alby at her home temple and prepared to assist with a ritual to free her from the curse. As Minsc and his allies restrained Nerys in her werewolf form, Father Alby help Nerys find her true self so the companions could be a whole group once again at peace. 
When the death curse afflicted all the people of the Realms that had undergone resurrection at some point in their life, Minsc and Boo accompanied the cleric Celeste, the famous writer Volothamp Geddarm along with the Heroes of Sleeping Dragon Bridge on a voyage to Port Nyanzaru Chult. Despite their ship being turned over by a dragon turtle, the group continued on with their journey and Minsc eventually returned to the Sword Coast.
In the , Minsc and Boo assisted the Emerald Enclave in Neverwinter, during their battle against the four elemental cults that threatened the Sword Coast North.The Neverwinter expansion Elemental Evil attempts to reconcile the unusual appearance of the ranger in Baldurs Gate by confirming that he was indeed petrified, which ensured his longevity. he even helped Drizzt DoUrden and Bruenor Battlehammer drive the Cult of the Eternal Flame from Gauntlgrym, and defeat demons that threated to spill out from the Abyss into the Underdark.
300px|Minsc demonstrating his ability to calm even the most nightmarish of beasts.
When Minsc and Delina were shopping in one of the markets of Baldurs Gate, they encountered a pair of Hellriders being attacked by a hell knight from Lower Planes. The pair could not prevent one of the holy warriors from being taken to the Nine Hells, but promised their companion Aubree Lucent they and their companions would retrieve him. Together they met with the knowledgeable Fremin Greer, who directed them to Great Reader Sylvira Savikas in Candlekeep. where Minsc was nearly seduced by the succubus Semyaza.
After meeting with Reader Sylvira, Minsc and his allies were teleported to the city of Elturel, just as it was being dragged down to Avernus on the Nine Hells. Beset by devils from all sides in the city streets, Minsc, Nerys and others helped defend the innocents of Elturel, before the pair were plunged down a chasm during a second battle with the hell knight Haruman. Landing on a colossal pile of bones on the wastelands of Avernus and witnessing the horrors of the Blood War, Minsc and Nerys were taken captive by a band of scavengers known as the Bloodrovers.
300px|Minsc, as the notorious Stone Lord, terrorising the Gates Counting House.
During their abduction, Minsc was submerged in the foul waters of the River Styx and was stripped of all his memories and instinct for quite some time. It wasnt until he came face to face with the archdevil Zariel that Minsc could once again recognize and know it was his duty to defeat evil. When the city of Elturel returned to the Prime Material plane and was safe from the fiends of the Hells, Minsc had gained back his restored sense of purpose but not his memories. He spent time listening to the exploits of his life shared to him by Boo, believing the stories too outlandish and amazing until he was reassured by Nerys.
In the Year of Three Ships Sailing, 1492 DR, Jaheira and Minsc reunited to combat the rising menace of the cult of the Absolute. While they were the first to discover crucial information about this new threat, Minscs impulsive charge into combat squandered the chance to muster additional forces. Consequently, Jaheira had no choice but to leave Minsc behind as she went to disseminate news about the cult. After that, Minsc was implanted with a mind flayer tadpole and deceived into following a doppelganger of Jaheira, killing many in the name of the Absolute.