Miska, the Wolf-Spider, was a demon lord who was once the Prince of Demons. He was also the ruler of the spyder-fiends.
Miska resembled an enormous spider with three heads a humanoid head atop a central four-armed humanoid torso, with two wolf-like heads on either side. The hair on his humanoid head was long and black, and his spider-like body was blue-black with bands of gray, silver, and blue. His arms, however, were a bleached white color.
Miska was cruel and chaotic he desired revenge against the Wind Dukes for his imprisonment. Interestingly, because a part of his essence was trapped in the Rod of Seven Parts, he was faintly influenced by it, developing a yearning for neatness.
As a demon lord, Miska had a wide range of powerful abilities, from those common to all tanarri, to regeneration, and great strength and intelligence as befit his role as the Queen of Chaoss general. He was also very charismatic, and when shapechanged into a humanoid form he was even more effective against unaware humanoids, and he could imitate any noise or voice he had heard before. His greatest and most feared strength however, was his ability to organize the various unruly demons of the Abyss into a regimented army. After his injury, a part of his essence was trapped in the Rod, rendering him immune to its effects and also preventing his demise.
Miska was native to the Abyss like all tanarri, but had been imprisoned for untold millenia in a fortress in the depths of Pandemonium the fortress itself was enshrouded by a cocoon of Law.
In the Age before Ages, when the Queen of Chaos planned her great war against the rest of the multiverse, she slew the reigning Prince of Demons, Obox-ob, and gave the title to her tanarri lover and servitor, Miska, thus ensuring the loyalty of the tanarri. For a time the war went well, until it took the form of Law versus Chaos as the obyrith armies clashed with those of the Wind Dukes of Aaqa. Eventually, seven of the Wind Dukes greatest champions created what would become known as the Rod of Seven Parts, using it to injure and then imprison Miska in Pandemonium, but breaking the Rod in the process and scattering the pieces across the multiverse.