Mitchifer was the proprietor and barkeep of the World Serpent Inn, a interplanar tavern and inn that could be accessed from the city of Arabel in Cormyr.
At first glance, Mitchifer appeared like a tall, If one looked closely at Mitchifers face, it could be seen that the strands of his beard were tiny white snakes rather than hair. Mitchifer had no irises, and his pupils were shaped like doorways.
It was said, however, that Mitchifers appearance&mdashas that of his inn&mdashvaried at different times and places, sometimes radically.
thumb|250px|right|Mitchifer was everyones friend.
Mitchifer was kind to everyone, treating all as friends that he had always known&mdasheven if they had treated him poorly in the past. His face seemed stuck in a permanent smile. He had a boisterous, loud laugh, and some&mdashsuch as Volothamp Geddarm&mdashreported being unable to refrain from laughing in his presence.
Mitchifer was happy to provide basic information about his inn or connect people of common interests, but he refused to talk about more complicated matters. 
Despite his jovial appearance, Mitchifer had deific powers, which kept violence in his tavern at bay. He sometimes seemed able to control to which plane the inn would connect. 
Mitchifer seemed to have any drink imaginable available at his bar.
Mitchifer had a deal with Shult, the owner of the Wild Goose, an inn in Arabel that had a a dimensional connection to the World Serpent. Mitchifer provided Shult with exotic goods from across the Planes for his patrons.
Mitchifer had a superior known as "the Owner", who was said to be a god or even an overgod, who was a sleeping fragment of the World Serpent.
thumb|right|300px|Mitchifer behind his bar serving drinks.
Many believed that Mitchifer was a refugee from a cosmic faction. Elminster and others believed that Mitchifer was a god who enjoyed interacting with all manner of creatures and chose to become the barkeep of the World Serpent to control access in and out of varying planes. In any case, the Owners consciousness controlled the demiplane in which the inn had been constructed, and Mitchifer acted as divine servant of that consciousness.
Some claimed that Mitchifer had died multiple times, but he always seemed to return.