Mjenir Tormhaalt (The pronunciation of his surname isnt mentioned in the Icewind Dale Rime of the Frostmaiden.) was a Reghedmen human shaman from the Tribe of the Elk on the Reghed Glacier in Icewind Dale in the late 15 century DR.
He relished the authority he had earned through his ostensible revelations from the spirits, but most of the time, his counsel simply derived from his deep knowledge of nature. He waged a constant struggle to protect his position from upheaval.
Even though Mjenirs age was close to that of King Jarund, Mjenir looked a decade younger because he had neither borne the weight of the tribes leadership nor faced the rigors of warfare.
Mjenir had icy blue eyes and long braided platinum-blond hair.
Mjenir had a profound understanding of the natural world and it alone made him an invaluable member of the tribe. Mjenir was known for his ability to speak with animals. However, he had nearly no control over the spirits of nature and could perform only the simplest divinations.
The shaman was able to cast the produce flame cantrip.
Mjenir had a short marriage with a woman who passed away when their only son, Olaf Tormhaalt, was still a child.
Mjenirs relationship with Olaf remained distant, primarily because the shamans main priority was safeguarding his standing within the clan.
He was suspicious about Hedruns emerging powers exceeding his own, which could result in him losing his position in the tribe. Mjenir encouraged the tribe to treat the girl as a threat.
One of the tribes older warriors, Soren Arnsfirth, Hedruns father, sought advice and help for his daughter from Mjenir, but the shaman wasnt interested in it and insisted on ostracizing the girl.
All members of the Tribe of the Elk sought his guidance. King Jarund constantly consulted with Mjenir, especially when Auril inflicted severe winters on the surrounding lands. As both of their sons passed away, the kings bond with his shaman deepened.
During his early years, Mjenir commenced his apprenticeship with the tribes former shaman. Later he became the shaman of the Tribe of the Elk and wielded the most authority among the tribes members, second only to the king.
The shaman also forbade his son Olaf to see Hedrun when he realized that the boy had fallen in love with her. But the two continued to meet and it ended with Olafs death as a result of Hedruns uncontrollable gifts. Later Mjenir brought Olafs dead body before King Jarund to ensure Hedrun was banished from the tribe. The shaman didnt demand her death as he was afraid of the possible power of the girls vengeful spirit and hoped Hedrun would meet her end facing the dangers of the Reghed Glaciers wildlife.
With the unexpected early arrival of winter storms in the , and rumors of an Ice Witch sweeping through the area, he began to question to himself whether banishing Hedrun had been a misstep. He assumed her to be the reason for the calamity. Worried that he or his tribe could be blamed for provoking the witchs fury, he resisted Hengar Aesnvaards proposal to seek assistance from Ten-Towns. He pushed for the tribe to keep moving, yet he harbored the knowledge that he couldnt escape the unforgiving grip of winters wrath. He sought a means to confront the witchs threat without confessing his role to the rest of the tribe.
Circa the , Mjenir had a vision where he saw a group of adventurers traveling to the Reghed Glacier. Its unknown if Mjenir survived the battle.