human
Morfred was the architect of Moonrise Towers in the Western Heartlands in the mid-to-late 14 century DR, when he served Ketheric Thorm. However, Morfred turned against him following his conversion to Shar and purge of Selûnites. Morfred and his brother Halfred formed a secret Selûnite resistance against Ketheric, which found only futility until the cambion Raphael offered him a deal Morfreds soul for the extermination of Ketherics Dark Justiciars. In death, he was known as the Infernal Mason and one of the many debtors that existed in Raphaels House of Hope.
thumb|right|300px|Moonrise Towers in the late 15 century, when it served as the headquarters of the Cult of the Absolute.
During the 14 century DR, Morfred was a servant of General Ketheric Thorm, and was commissioned by him to construct Moonrise Towers in honor of Selûne. Morfred readily agreed, being himself a devout follower of the Moodmaiden. However, Melodia Thorm, Ketherics wife, soon passed, and was shortly followed by Isobel, Ketherics daughter. In his grief, Ketheric spurned Selûne and turned to Shar, building up an army of Dark Justiciars to eradicate Selûnite sympathies and kill those who did not convert, Morfred included. Morfred, in his log, detailed Ketherics fall from grace and speculated that Shar weaponized his grief for her benefit, as well as implying that Ketheric only converted to Selûne because of Melodias influence.Morfred muses "The Thorms are Selûnite through and through—or so I believed. Perhaps Ketheric only converted for Melodia, and with her death—and then his daughters—his faith died too. But to turn to Shar? It beggars belief.", implying that Ketheric may not have initially been a worshiper of Selûne up until his marriage to Melodia.
By , Morfred and his brother, Halfred, formed a secret Selûnite resistance despite investigations from Sharran forces. Halfred went to the Last Light Inn, while Morfred formulated a holdout in the basement of the Reithwin Masons Guild, where he once worked, and planned to gather allies to oppose Ketheric. Morfred feigned allegiance to Shar, but on several occasions upon drinking too much, his true loyalties came out, once in front of Thisobald Thorm, who reported his findings to Ketheric. Some time after, the Masons Guild was raided by Sharrans, resulting in Halfred assuming his brother was dead if not already captured.
Noticing Morfreds desperation against the Sharrans, the cambion Raphael approached Morfred and offered him a deal Morfreds soul for the eradication of Ketherics army. Morfred accepted, allowing Raphael to enlist the orthon Yurgir to annihilate the Dark Justiciars, save for one, Lyrthindor, whom Raphael also approached to keep Yurgir bound to his contract. Without his army and routed by the Emerald Enclave and Harpers, Ketheric, in his defeat, laid a shadow curse on the land. Any individuals who were caught within the curse turned to shadow-cursed undead, save for Moonrise Towers, owing to Morfreds precautions of safety. At some point afterwards, Morfred died and, as per his contract with Raphael, was bound to the House of Hope as a debtor. Morfreds bones were put on display within the Masons Guild for all to see.
thumb|right|300px|Upon being informed of Ketheric Thorms demise and the lifting of the shadow-curse, Morfred urged the group of adventurers to escape the House of Hope while they still could.
Morfred, having forgone his original name, was instead known only as the Infernal Mason, and served Raphael. In the , the House of Hope was visited by a group of adventurers seeking the Orphic Hammer. They encountered Morfred, who gave vague answers about the nature of the House, but mentioned his previous accomplishments of being the architect behind Moonrise Towers. When told of Thorms demise and the lifting of the shadow curse, Morfred expressed delight that eventually his actions led to Ketherics fall, but lamented that it had come too late for his family and friends. He then urged the adventurers to escape the House while the opportunity presented itself.