Morlain was a Heartwarder and the High Priestess of the Palace of Passion, grand temple of Sune Firehair in Ravens Bluff in the late 14 century DR.
After the war against notorious warlord Myrkyssa Jelan of the , Morlain was in her late 40s. She was a stunningly gorgeous petite woman with raven-black hair and black almond-shaped eyes. She was only  tall and weighed .
Following the destruction of her temple and tensions that arose between the Church of Sharess, Morlain issued declarations of peace between the churches and the goddesses.
Despite common misconceptions about Sunes shallowness, Morlain preached a different interpretation of the goddess holy text, Loves Lesson. The High Priestess taught that for the worship of Sune to be true, one had to know oneself. Every person had beauty about them as long as they could find it and cherish it.
In her late 40s, Morlain was the target of other beautiful and ambitions Hearrwarders of Sune who aimed to challenge the High Priestess for her position due to Morlains creeping age. However, as of the late 1370s DR, Morlains keen fashion sense and masterful use of cosmetics kept potential challengers at bay.
Morlain was loyally devoted to her beloved husband and fellow Hearrwarder of Sune – Ilbrar the Iron. Despite their relationship, Morlain always expressed admiration for beautiful men and women.
By the end of Myrkyssa Jelans war with Ravens Bluff in the late 14 century DR, Morlain has been the High Priestess on and off for five years. She took the title from High Priest Corwell Fanfare, who left the Palace of Passion to preach the goddesss dogma and act as her champion. He reportedly visited Sune in her realm in Arborea. Morlain regularly welcomed her predecessor at the Palace of Passion, where he kept a room, but his visits were brief.
Sometime after 1372 DR, the Palace of Passion was destroyed in a fierce battle between an avatar of Sune and devil Glasya who was using the Church of Sharess in Ravens Bluff to grow her cult in secrecy. Morlain oversaw the reconstruction that followed, and eventually, the temple was reopened a year later. During that year, Morlain and her priests were given lodgings in the temple of Selûne – the Moonflame. The High Priestess made an agreement with the Gondar architects to create the new temple to be a technological marvel and a beauty.
As the High Priestess, Morlain worked tirelessly running classes for the Ravenaar on jewelry and fashion and helmed the efforts of outreach and aid of homeless folk of Ravens Bluff. She often found herself exhausted and took time off to restore her inner peace and beauty at the Valley of Dolls Sunite resort.
Morlain dedicated her little free time to procuring an elixir of longevity to solidify her position as the High Priestess of Sune. The challenge for the position was inevitable as she aged.