Mrolgyet was a hobgoblin warrior and warlord who commanded his eponymous Mrolgyets Legion in the late 15 century DR.
Mrolgyet dealt with all challenges personally, and it was said that the most dangerous place in his Legion was wherever he was. He was sufficiently intimidating to terrify giants into serving his whims, and he was shrewd enough to anticipate the blind spots and weaknesses of his minions and to correct for them.
He had a personal "champion" that was really a helmed horror outfitted in Frostsilver armor. He also had access to magic to animate a new helmed horror should his champion ever be defeated.
He may have had a relationship with Kurgaloth, a pit fiend who leveraged an infernal contract with the Lightfinger family of Waterdeep to distract the city from Mrolgyets machinations in order to increase the likelihood of the citys destruction.
Mrolgyet was a soldier who rose through the ranks through personal combat. As commander of his own Legion, he worked to grow his forces and acquire powerful equipment. In the late 15 century DR, he brought under his command chieftains and leaders of gnolls, bugbears, trolls, and ettins among others, and&mdashnoting the strategic value of Harvestshield Mountains location for waging war on the Lords Alliance&mdashhe claimed Chaunteas Citadel atop the mountain as his base of operations. He further sent his agents Snarlclaw and Grocknock to Frostsilver Mines to acquire Frostsilver armor and the Anvil of Dumathoin. Recognizing that these trolls and ettins would be ill-equipped to break through dwarven metal doors, he arranged for rust monsters to accompany them. Unfortunately, this expedition caught the attention of Laeral Silverhand, the Open Lord of Waterdeep, who then sent adventurers and an army to thwart the Legion at Harvestshield Mountain.
Eventually, Silverhands adventurers breached the Citadel, and issued a challenge to Mrolgyet himself as they fought through his troops. Mrolgyet obliged to fight them personally, but was badly injured. He withdrew from the battle to recover, knowing that his Legions discipline would hold, and sent his helmed horror "champion"&mdashoutfitted in Frostsilver armor&mdashto represent him. The champion too was destroyed, and the Legion was pushed back. At this point, a new rival for Harvestshield Mountain appeared in the form of the red dragon Argathakul, who asserted it as his territory. The dragon too was beaten back by the adventurers, and Mrolgyets Legion was routed.