Munafik was the high priest of Amun-Re. After being interred with him, he turned himself and all the other priests into undead. 
Besides being a powerful mage capable of using many spells, Munafik had removed his own heart and hidden it inside a jar so long as the jar remained intact, so would he. He had also been able to transform all the priests into undead. Some of those feats may have been learned from a libram of ineffable damnation he had with himself in the grave. His magic also powered the tests in the Gauntlet level of the Tomb of Amun-Re. 
Munafik was the master of tomes of Terbakar, high priest of Amun-Re, and leader of his rites and religion. He sought eternal life too, and it was rumored that he wanted to take the Pharaohs eternal lives for himself. However, he genuinely sought only to serve, at least according to the record of one of his underlings. Once inside the pyramid, he and the other priests were sustained by offerings of food and drink from the faithful, but as the river dried and offerings became less frequent, he taught the other priests of the dark arts. They turned into undead, and began feeding on the adventurers that came to the pyramid.
At some point while inside the maze, Munafik removed his own heart and placed it in a jar, using sorcery to make it so that damage would never affect him so long as it didnt touch his heart. Then he set a clay golem to guard the organ in a room outside of the temples normal maps.  As of the mid-14 century DR, only one adventurer had battled him and lived after learning of his magic, a paladin she may have been rescued from eight ghouls by those same adventurers who ultimately managed to break the curse of Amun-Re and restore Marteks sphere of power.
Though he was a priest, Munafik employed arcane magic. Though he was undead, he had a floating pool bed for his own use.
Per the Tale of the Years, it was said that Munafik was something of a sage, a lover of book learning- but he may have had a hand in the curse of Amun-Re as well, for many of the books he read were of the black arts. The prophets that passed through the city avoided him "like a beggar avoids a good bath". 
Munafiks name was spelled wrong in a number of ways, including Munifik and Munkfik.