Muriel Bricket was a frivolous and money-grabbing noblewoman from Daggerford, sister to Alicine and Elveronne Bricket in the 14 century DR.
Muriel was a plump and mature human noblewoman with pale skin and white hair.
Muriel appeared as a welcoming and pleasant woman who valued etiquette.
Muriel Bricket openly feuded with their brother over his strict money management and tight control of the Bricket family estate. He considered her nothing but a frivolous embarrassment to the family name. Elveronnes resentment culminated in him trying to write the sisters out of his will. However, in 1372 DR, Muriel hatched a plot to poison the old man and take over the family fortune without Alicines knowledge. She doused Elveronnes fish dinner in a fast-acting deadly poison, and the sisters watched the old man choke and die.
During the funeral, Alicine, in secret from everyone, stole her brothers precious  enchanted elven keepsake necklace, the act that was to haunt the sisters soon after.
Soon after Elveronnes timely demise, Muriel and Alicine organized a party to celebrate the old mans departure from the land of the living. They invited several of their friends, including Sancha, Alicines pen pal from Bowshot. During the celebration, the sisters served refreshments and expensive hors doeuvres, such as magically rejuvenating elvish seedcakes. All partygoers shared disdain of Muriels brother, calling him cruel and abhorrent.
During the celebration, Elveronne Bricket, unbeknownst to his sisters, rose from the familys crypt and made way to the familys house in the Western Farmlands. The corpses disappearance prompted the individual later known as the Hero of Daggerford to investigate the occurrence. This led the Hero and their companions to the odd celebration. Raegen Brunegar noted that a lavish party was strange, especially so soon after Elveronnes interring. By her own admission, Muriel was happy, almost giddy at the prospect of living out her life outside of old man Brickets shadow.
Once sisters realized the Hero of Daggerford investigated the death of their "beloved" brother, both excused themselves from the party and headed to the second floor of the manor, attempting to hide any evidence there might be of the murder. Feverishly trying to hide any evidence, Muriel tossed a vial of potent poison out of the window but not before the Hero was able to witness her suspicious act. She lied about cleaning some broken branches of the windowsill. However, it was fairly obvious she lied as the thud from the dropped object did not sound like dead twigs.
The Hero discovered Elveronne Bricket in his undead form, burning with palpable hatred and murder lust, shuffling around the manors basement. Ignoring the creatures revenant form, the Hero communicated with Elveronne and discovered that the undead wanted revenge or his keepsake returned. However, it was unknown if the Hero poured the holy water on Elveronne, destroying him, negotiated the return of the enchanted elven keepsake necklace, or allowed old man Bricket to exact his murderous revenge. One thing was clear - in the end, Elveronne Bricket was returned to eternal rest, one way or another.