Myrmith Splendon (Pronounce|MEER|mith|_|Spl|ENN|don|refs=
Myrmith Splendon was a handsome, clean-shaven man with light-brown, curly hair, light-blue eyes and a ragged scar across his forehead. His build was light and disarming, but his strength was easily proven in combat. He was always clad in chainmail with a black tabard, alert and ready for action, even when he seemed distracted or totally unprepared. His fees were steep even in 1357 DR, but still there was often a wait list of a tenday, a week or two may be necessary, or more to receive his good instruction unless one was willing to pay double.
Myrmith could use any weapon he knew and could train a student in the use of it thoroughly, or assisted fighters in improving their overall battle skills enough to allow them to advance a step in expertise. He fees were 190 gp/class level per week. His teaching skill was such that training, even when his home was full of students learning simultaneously, would take the minimum time necessary.
Since before 1357 DR, Myrmith would have those on the wait list who want to "bump" voluntarily pay double the fee so he would risk displeasure, and possible loss, of another client.
He had his students use his homes foundry to repair weapons they damaged, or modify those they wielded. He allowed the daily use of the variety of weapon specimens he mastered in his house.
Circa 1357 DR and 1368 DR, a competitor of Myrmith was Varbrace Zaalen. He discouraged adventuring because of the risks too high for the potential profits.
His wizard friends were continuously experimenting and improving his houses "snooks".
One sword-fighting student of his was Helmite paladin Ajantis Ilvastarr of the noble Ilvastarr family of Waterdeep.
Myrmith acted as a "captain-at-arms", a kind of tutor to fighters, teaching bladed weapons and polearms. He did not try to master any particular weapon himself, but instead preferred to learn all kinds of different weapons and master the greatest number. Myrmith was an excellent teacher and was usually busy at his house, The Snookery, in Spindle Street teaching students (clients).
The "snooks" on his house were unshakably loyal to Myrmith and even magic could not turn them against him. He also could control his house defenses seven magical, +2 flying daggers. These daggers could not be affected by any type of magical or psionic control except by Myrmith, and they were immune to magic missile and all lightning or electrical-based magic, which the daggers reflect back 100% on the source.
Circa 1368 DR, one story told of him pinning someone to a wall by their necklace with a thrown dagger, all while laughing uproarious at a joke.