unicorns
Mystra (
Mystras secret was that she was more powerful than any god, save for Lord Ao, but therein lay the secret. Roughly half of her power lay in her Chosen and in the lesser power Azuth, as planned by Ao so that Mystra did not rule all Realmspace.
Mystra wielded Silver fire, a raw magic also available to her Chosen.
After the Second Sundering, being spread across the Weave on Toril made Mystra much harder to find, and even harder to target. As the Lady of Spells, she was the source for other gods spellcraft, making her normally immune to the direct effects of such spells, though not its after-effects. 
Dracoliches such as Daurgothoth would become her targets only at the moment they stepped beyond gathering magic (which she encouraged), and onto restricting it from others. Azuth and Mystra were likewise wary of Ioulaum and his attempts at controlling the Weave. They allowed him only minor successes, so as to keep him away from his more nefarious plans.
Mystra and Azuth punished egregiously deceitful auctioneering of magical items, such as when an item was covertly exchanged for another, or was not magical to begin with.
Mystra ruled over the divine dominion of Dweomerheart.
However, no mortal was aware that after the Second Sundering, Mystra abided within the Weave. In this way, she was ever-present & hidden across Toril, able to create other-dimensional spaces for mortals or servants seeking audience.
Mystras failsafe echoes resided in Azuths divine realm (also called Azuth), within a royal castle and surrounded by blue mists. 
Mystras customary adviser was Azuth and she was also served indirectly by Savras and Velsharoon. Other allies of hers included Selûne and Kelemvor, whom she knew as a man when she was a mortal. Mystras greatest enemies were Shar, who created the Shadow Weave to oppose Mystras Weave, and Cyric, who was a mortal along with Mystra and Kelemvor.
right|The holy symbol of Mystra.
The church of Mystra preserved magical lore so that magic would continue and flourish in the future even if the dominant races of Faerûn were to fall. Its members also sought out those skilled in magic or who had the potential to use it, keeping a close eye on those who were likely to become skilled. Her clerics were encouraged to explore magical theory and create new spells and magic items. Sites dedicated to the goddess were enhanced by the Weave to allow any spell cast by her clerics while in them to be affected by metamagic. Mystra honored commitments to members of her predecessors clergy whod joined the church before the Time of Troubles, preventing them from being forced to leave the clergy due to alignment differences.
Mystra also had powerful mortal servants among her ranks of followers, including Elminster, Khelben Arunsun, and the Seven Sisters.
* Children of the Starry Quill
* Order of the Shooting Star
* Order of the Blue Moon
* Knights of the Mystic Fire
Before her ascension to godhood, the third Mystra was a woman named Midnight, who, along with several other individuals, including Kelemvor, played a large role during the Avatar Crisis, also known as the Time of Troubles.
Midnight, born Ariel Manx in 1332 DR, was the second child of Theus Manx, a merchant, and his wife Paiyse. Midnight had an elder sibling named Rysanna who assumed the role of the familys demure "princess" whenever wealthy suitors called. As a teenager, Midnight became familiar with the nights populace of bards, thieves, sorcerers, and fighters and was eventually nicknamed "Midnight" by these friends, a name she immediately preferred to Ariel.
Midnights first taste of magic began with her tryst with the conjurer Tad, who set her on her path. She began to exhibit less interest in her hedonistic pursuits and more in the quest for magical knowledge and training, gradually becoming more obsessed with her magical quest. Eventually, Midnight moved out of the family home to seek her own path.
It was during this time that she fell into the worship of Mystra, whose attention Midnight attracted during her time of service in one of Mystras temples. From her 21st year on, Midnight began to feel a presence from time to time. She would feel her skin tingle coolly and began to feel that she was somehow being followed or observed. After such attentions, she always found that spells, which she had labored over for weeks, would suddenly work without any problem. Midnight soon suspected that she had been granted special attention by Mystra herself and believed that she was being groomed for the position of Magister.
Sunlar, high priest of the Deepingdale temple of Mystra, took Midnight under his supervision. It was during this time that Midnights knowledge of self-defense and magic improved leaps and bounds and Midnight spent a year in the temple at Deepingdale before she left. For the next three years Midnight devoted herself to Mystras worship and pursued every scrap of magic she could.
left|Holy symbol of the resurrected Mystra.
In the Year of the Ageless One, 1479 DR, while recuperating in a cabin in the Kings Forest, Elminster felt Mystras presence calling to him. He found her much diminished, possessing the body of a bear that had guarded a cache of items Mystras still-mortal form had collected. She asked her most trusted servant to find new candidates to become Chosen and to recruit Cormyrs War Wizards.
Only a few weeks later, having been restored to his full powers as a Chosen by absorbing the silver fire of the dying Symrustar Auglamyr and then that of the Simbul and Manshoon, Elminster returned to Mystra (in agony from absorbing too much of it) and returned much of it to the Lady of Mysteries, restoring much of her power and divinity. This event became known as Mystras Return. But it was not until 1487 DR that the goddess was whole again.
In the , after conferring with Mystra, Azuth offered the office of Magister to Valargrim Hond upon Tannathras voluntary retirement. In 1496 DR, Ramarthant Horaerays was offered the office by Azuth upon the death of Valargrim.