Nagnorm Stuffler was a young eccentric gnome taxidermist, member of the Taxidermy Society of the Sword Coast, from the hamlet of Gillians Hill in the Delimbiyr Vale in the late 14 century DR.
Nagnorm had an impressive waxed sharp-ended red mustache and well-manicured nails. His face looked fairly emaciated.
Being a bizarre character, Nagnorm talked with his stuffed possessions, preferring the company of dead animals to that of the living beasts or humanoids. When confronted with stuffing living animals, the gnome declared that they enjoyed it, apart from some mild complaining when he opened them up.
Nagnorms home was a secluded cottage on the northeastern end of the hamlet. He carried a taxidermy knife he used to protect himself with and as a part of the gnomes taxidermy craft. Specials mixture of his own creation could be found in the gnomes home. He also carried a potion of cure light wounds. His home was decorated with many stuffed mammals, birds and had animal heads mounted on the walls.
By the , Nagnorm home was already a curiosity that the gnome liked to show off to those interested in taxidermy. The gnomes dream was to open a grand museum – "Stuffleronus," in Waterdeep, for all to come and see his stuffed animals. In 1372 DR, Nagnorm purchased a pinguin, or as he so eloquently put it – a "remarkable bird-like animal," from a traveling merchant for a mere five gp. Of course, the living animal was purchased exclusively for stuffing purposes. The fact that the bird talked did not phase the gnome in the slightest. The penguin attempted to explain that it was really a druid of the Brush of Barbs circle. The druid name Urith was transformed into this ridiculous form by a circle member who allied with a dark druid cabal. The other ensorcelled fowl druids encountered the Hero of Daggerford and pleaded for aid.
When the Hero tracked down Urith to Nagnorm Stufflers home in Gillians Hill, the bird was on the verge of becoming a stuffed animal in the taxidermists collection. The eccentric man refused to acknowledge the penguin as anything but a beast, despite the bird introducing itself and calling for help in human words. After a prolonged negotiation, the Hero, along with Urith, managed to convince the strange gnome that he was not a penguin but a royal emissary from the Pengu-een Empire to Baldurs Gate and that imprisonment and murder of Urith would cause war and countless deaths. This outlandish tale was somehow more believable to Nagnorm, and after much deliberation, Urith was set free to be returned back to the Brush of Barbs.