Nangulis was Kiril Duskmourns fiancee, and a Keeper of the Cerulean Sign in charge of the Inner Bastion of Stardeep. He sacrificed himself in order to create the sword Angul, so as to prevent the escape of the Traitor.
As far as Kiril Duskmourn remembered, Nangulis was tall, silver-haired, with dark, intense, enthralling eyes.
In Kirils memory, Nangulis was an "unbending, saintly bastard". When briefly manifest in 1375 DR, he was composed and devoted to his duty as a Keeper, yet still in love with Kiril.
To Kirils judgement, Nangulis had grown more powerful by becoming Angul.
He wielded a starblade. He also bore one of the Cerulean Signs, which was later entrusted to Commander Brathtar.
Nangulis was the Keeper of the Cerulean Sign in charge of the Inner Bastion of Stardeep. In his free time, he and Kiril loved to take long walks in the Yuirwood.
Nangulis was engaged to Kiril, but the escape of the Traitor prevented them from marrying.
Nangulis had known Kiril Duskmourn long before becoming a Keeper. He served five years together with Kiril.
During a breach by the Traitor, Nangulis, Kiril and Cynosure were forced to call upon ancient Keeper Lore and use Nangulis soul to create a weapon capable of seriously damaging the Traitor, thus synthesizing the blade Angul. This took most of his soul, but the leftovers were later encapsulated and preserved by Cynosure Keeper Telarian used those later to construct the blade Nis.
In , Keeper Telarian instructed his agent, Gage, to tell Kiril that Nangulis was the one seeking the Blade Cerulean, in order to draw her to Stardeep. Once in Stardeep, Telarian struck at Kiril with Nis when she parried with Angul and the blades struck together, they merged into a new weapon, Angul-Nis. As a result, Nangulis soul was rejoined and made whole, and he was briefly able to talk to Kiril. Tragically, it was necessary for Nangulis to sacrifice himself again in order to split Angul-Nis back into two blades, so that Telarian could not use it to undo the wards keeping the Traitor sealed. Nangulis kept Kirils mind focused and then accepted the task, but the sword did not fully sunder until Telarian was distracted by a backstab from Gage, destroying Nangulis again.