Nant Thangol, also known as the Basilisk, was a dwarf toll collector that lived in Baldurs Gate in the late 15 century DR.
The dwarf was pale and emaciated, making him look quite ghastly. Nant was very strong, wise, and robust.
Thangol was haughty and arrogant, and was more than happy to exert his influence over others. Many people of the Gate did not appear to like Nant, and pointed out that he wasnt a real customs agent the Flaming Fist mercenaries who oversaw Nants work were uncomfortable about this particular claim.
Nant was a decent combatant, and fought with a dagger whilst wearing studded leather armor. He was opportunistic in battle, and could shift out of the way of attacks with relative ease.
Nant owned an apartment next to the Blushing Mermaid.
The Basilisk was known for patrolling the Basilisk Gate and collecting taxes from the citizens of the Gate. Several Flaming Fist mercenaries appeared to guard Nant Thangols table underneath a striped canopy. Nant would record the fees taken from those who wished to pass the gate in his personal book of ledgers. Thangol was more than happy to let those of high reputation through the Basilisk Gate. After finishing work, sometimes around midnight, Flaming Fist escorts and lamp lads would guard him until he reached his home.
The injustice caused by Thangols overexertion of authority had not gone noticed, especially by the Guild. Rilsa Rael planned on stealing his moneybox, and she hoped to recruit the Heroes of the Wide in order to make this happen. Once acquired, she wanted to redistribute the gold to the poorest citizens of the Outer City.
In 1482 DR, Thangol was in charge of toll collection at the Basilisk Gate, the gate separating the Lower City and the Outer City. When an item from the Harbormasters Office disappeared, Nant stepped up the security of the gate he patrolled, searching everyone that wished to pass. As groups of workers were not allowed to pass, the scene became quite chaotic. A blonde dwarf, Mareak, claimed that the laborers had nothing to hide, and just wished to return home for some food. He petitioned the Heroes of the Wide to convince Thangol to let the poor folk through. Thangol, however, believed them to be "scum", but would let them through should someone else pay up.