Naomi was a member of the Yayazato samurai clan and a consort of daimyo Benju Matsutomo in the town of Aru in Wa in the 1770s on the Wa Calendar.
Naomi was the favorite consort of daimyo Benju Matsutomo. They were very close, and she was pregnant with a child by him in .
Naomi was the granddaughter of Takashi Yayazato, Benjus predecessor as daimyo of Aru Province.
To others, Naomi appeared to be a mild and introverted woman but she was actually strong-willed and highly intelligent. When she needed to be, she could be more decisive than the daimyo himself. She loved Benju and did whatever she could to help him, and even disobeyed his direct orders if she considered them foolish. Afterward, Benju always accepted her reasoning and forgave her.
In high summer of , Naomi, Benju, various local nobility, and a group of adventurers hired by the daimyo gathered one evening on the vantage point on the hill north of Aru, beside the Shining Temple of Bishamon. Naomi would be the most pleasant and outgoing with the adventurers. The evening was ruined when the temples great brass bell broke as the hour was rung. On another night, she may have been awoken when ronin working for the Yamaguchi clan attacked the donjon.
On a later night, if she trusted the adventurers shed spoken to earlier, Naomi may have had members of Benjus Home Guard samurai arrange a secret midnight meeting between them and her. She informed them that there were different bands of ninja operating in Aru, some opposing Benju, others serving him, and that Benju was using the adventurers as stalking horses. She thought they would do better knowing the truth.
Naomi was skilled in poetry and proficient in etiquette, flower arranging, origami, and the tea ceremony. Despite being born into a samurai family, she had no combat training.
Naomi had a room in the daimyos Donjon in the Castle District of Aru. She owned a number of beautiful kimonos and a high-quality samisen (a stringed instrument) stored in a lacquer case. She kept a knife hidden in her obi sash.
Circa Wa Year 1775, she was an attractive young woman in her mid-20s,