| parents        = Avarae
| spouses        = Esbre Felmorel
| familyrefs     = 
Lady Nasmaerae Felmorel was the Lady of Castle Felmorel in the mid–8 century DR.
Lady Nasmaerae Felmorel was beyond gorgeous and quite slender, with gold-flecked indigo eyes. During one spring feast in 761 DR, she was wearing a green gown with bare shoulders and pointed sleeves that almost hid her hands, and an intricate silver stomacher.
Her Art was everything to her, but she also loved Esbre Felmorel, her husband.
She was married to Esbre Felmorel. The mage Thessamel Arunder seemed to be afraid of her. The soldiers in the castle were also afraid of her sorcery when not leering mindlessly.
Nasmaerae possessed a number of rare spells. One of them allowed her to light up a handheld candelabra, probably a cantrip of sorts. Other spells of hers were able to steal secrets from a sleeping mind, or place another in spell-thrall. That last spell required her to have access to the persons urine, and also sacrifice some of her blood.
At some point, she put her husband Esbre Felmorel under spell-thrall.
In spring of the , Nasmaerae Felmorel allowed a wandering stranger, Wanlorn, to attend her husbands banquet, over the attempts of one of the guards, Glavyn, to stop him from entering. She was present for the feast, but said little.
Wanlorn called for divine protection that night, and then Nasmaerae tried to steal magic from his sleeping mind. In response, Azuth broke all her spells, including the one holding her husband in thrall to her he also informed her that if she tried to do any of that again, the means of her prying would be taken from her. Esbre immediately came to her with a dozen soldiers, and forced her to employ the spell again, most likely informed by Azuth himself as well. The spell required his chamberpot and a knife, which he had his soldiers provide. With the casting, her magic was shorn from her by Azuths power. Lord Esbre then declared theyd worship Azuth in that house forevermore.
By the , Nasmaerae had become truly devout to Azuth, though her magic had not been returned to her this frightened the soldiers in the castle more than when she held people in spell-thrall. During the chaos of the Art that year, she was concerned about her husbands ability to protect the realm without his wizards powers.
Her beauty was known and praised widely.