Nephryt was the loving wife of the Archmage of Thoth, Ankh-Kephra, who lived in Waterdeep and after their deaths, sometime long before the mid–14 century DR, interred within a tomb in Undermountain.
Nephryt and her husband had opposite personalities. She was kind, understanding, and appreciative of goodly morals, while Ankh-Kephra was abrasive, angry, and despised anyone who desecrated graves and disrespect tradition. In her undead life within the Tomb of Ankh-Kephra, she often asked adventurers and aspiring looters to leave before they were killed by the many dangers of the tomb, sometimes even warning the intruders of hidden undead guardians released by her husband.
Both Ankh-Kephr and Nephryt worshiped many gods of the Mulhorandi pantheon, with Hathor being her main deity of devotion.
Nephryt hailed from Mulhorand and eventually relocated to the City of Splendors, Waterdeep, long before the 14 century DR with her husband. They were wealthy and built a sprawling burial complex for themselves, according to Mulhorandi traditions. The tomb was located in Undermountain and well protected. For Nephryts happiness after death, Kephra added a wing to the tomb that held a beautiful garden with fountains and statues, a replica of the area she loved in life. After the end of their lives, both of the Mulhorandi wizards received the gift of unlife together, continuing their existence within the lavish tomb.
In 1370 DR, lone Khelbenite adventurer was sent to retrieve the magical scarab and had to survive the dangers of the Tomb of Ankh-Kephra. Nephryt sensed good intentions in the adventurer and aided Khelbenite through the tomb with soft whispers of guidance and warnings. Subsequently, the adventurer found the way into the tombs inner sanctum and came face-to-face with the wizards. Ankh-Kephra wanted nothing but to be left alone, telling the hero that he was the scarabs true owner. However, Nephryt kindly asked the hero to leave as the item did not rightfully belong to the Wands family who claimed it to be their heirloom. The hero agreed to leave the scarab within the tomb. To the heros surprise, Nephryt thanked the adventurer for the wise choice and admirable decision, rewarding the lone adventurer with the scarab and a selection of enchanted items from the wizards vault.