Nimrod of Nump was a mage of, its presumed, Nump in the Misbegotten Realms. He was renowned as the greatest [https//en.wiktionary.org/wiki/schlemiel schlemiel] of that world.
He once had a lair in the aptly named Verdant Forest, later known less aptly as the Verdant Desert. These two facts seem closely related.
Although possessed of some faint flickers of magical talent, Nimrod was quite lacking in the aspects of management, application, and forethought. He was in fact a prolific inventor of magical spells and magical items and magical mistakes. His proudest (others might say worst) achievement was the cylindrical scroll.
Whilst trying to enhance the basic spell erase, Nimrod seems to have made his final mistake and erased not only it, but himself too.
After Nimrods timely expiry, a number of his cylindrical scrolls remained lost, or maybe dumped, in various dungeons of the Misbegotten Realms and were a bane on unwary adventurers. His magical items, similarly, lay lost in certain treasure hoards and vaults, usually as a defence mechanism against such adventurers.
Some of the cylindrical scrolls came into the possession of several adventuring companies and those who survived chose to collect them together and secure them safely away from the world. The wizard Elkwhisker later discovered this trove of cylindrical scrolls, hidden in a dumpster behind the House of Out in the Kingdom of Slumdudgeon. Who knows how they got there.
Circa 1989 CE, Elkwhisker visited Earth and put occasional Dragon magazine contributor John M. Maxstadt to sleep telling him about Nimrod of Nump.
Nimrod of Numps cylindrical scroll was a unique form of magical scroll where the top joined seamlessly to the bottom, forming a continuous tube of parchment. An amazing side-effect, likely unintentional, was that spells inscribed on the scroll stayed there forever, no matter how often they were cast or copied. A terrible side-effect was that spells inscribed on the scroll stayed there forever, no matter how often they were cast or copied. This was because Nimrod neglected to include descriptions of spell effects and the circular nature of the scroll joined one spell to another, so casting them was liable to be catastrophic.
For some reason, Elkwhisker recorded the following of Nimrod cylindrical scrolls and the spells thereon
Scroll the First – Bumfoozles Bane find terrain • explosive familiar • invisible runes • wizards stalker • Bigbys interposing eye • remove hand (casters own) • audible curse • hallucinatory glamer 
Scroll the Second – Odods Oracle burning mouth • locate hands (companion to remove hand) • detect object • feign invisibility • Drawmijs instant death • magic summons
Scroll the Third – Goophuss Grimoire speak with mud • charm dead • water plant • stone breathing • affect shape • detect normal fires • wall of evil • transmute rock to stone
Scroll the Ancient Yule-Tide Carol – Falalalala Lalalala wall of missiles • minor globe of iron • monster invulnerability • fools summoning III • protection from normal gold
Some of Nimrod of Numps other magical items were as follows
ring of spell "turning" • ring of Hunan influence • staff of striking (Local 531) • candle of convocation • rug of mothering • omelet of the planes • medallion of EST • net of sneering • graffiti bottle • censor controlling air elementals • hammer +3, dwarf thrower • helm of brilliance, 40 Watt • liar of building • robe of blending (warning 3-speed) • robe of useless items
All were valued at absolutely no more than 6 gp, unless the seller just paid one to take them away.