Nintra Siotta, also known as the Princess of the Shadow Glass, the Lady of Dread Omens, and the Seeker of the Three Crowns was a powerful archfey and a member of the Gloaming Court under the reign of the Queen of Air and Darkness.
Befitting her moniker as the Princess of Shadow Glass, Nintra Siotta took the form of a  tall female humanoid whose body was composed of a dark, shadowy glass-like material. She wrapped herself in a "cloak" of darkness that consumed the light that surrounded her. She had a piercing gaze with green eyes that shone as if they were made of fire itself.
She spoke with a high-pitched and lilting voice.
Nintra was an arrogant and impudent courtier of the fey, often demonstrating immaturity and a lack of noble courtesy to the Queen of Air and Darkness. She wholeheartedly believed that the slavish obedience of her devotees would help her ascend as true and deserved regent of the Gloaming Court.
As an archfey of the Gloaming Court, Nintra Siotta wielded great power and magical abilities associated with shadows and illusion magic.
In addition to her spellcasting and spell-like powers, Nintra could conjure forth humanoid warriors whose bodies were composed of shadow glass. 
She had a contentious and outright hostile relationship with the Queen of Air and Darkness, head of the Gloaming Court.
According to the legend, Nintra was once a fairly ordinary fey, presumed to be one of the eladrin. Over time she accumulated more power and influence until she ascended to the title of an archfey. Nintras growing pride and contempt for those that did not worship her led to the starting a vicious feud with the ruler of the Gloaming Court, the Queen of Air and Darkness.
For her crimes against her queen and the people of the Realms, Nintra was bound within an extradimensional prison The Scriveners ritual formed a connection between the tome that bound the Princess of the Shadow Glass and her monarch, the Queen of Air of Darkness.
Hundreds of years later, Machil Rillyn of Baldurs Gate recovered the book from a ruined library and was struck with the scriveners mark. Fortunately for Machil, he was able to rid himself of the affliction by means of a wish spell and hid the book away in the library-fortress of Candlekeep in the . and drawing upon them the attention of the Queen of Air and Darkness and her servants fomorian giants, elven vampires, and even death slaads.
Nintra Siotta was given voice again as she began to telepathically communicate with the afflicted adventurer. The Princess of the Shadow Glass beckoned the group to travel to the lost Haven of the Red Quill as Machil did a decade prior and break her imprisonment using the recovered book, in order for her to "liberate" the Gloaming Court from the "oppressive" Queen of Air and Darkness. 
While in the ancient librarys great hall, the adventurers finally met the ghost of Zyrian the Scrivener, and learned more about the Nintras imprisonment. The archfeys efforts to claim her freedom became more frantic, After a great battle in the lost library of Delimbiyran, the princess of the Gloaming Court was defeated and the book that kept her bound was left to mere ash and dust. 
According to her story in The Scriveners Tale, the Princess of the Shadow Glass was exiled to the Prime Material plane for feuding with her queen, where she was greeted with genuine friendship and comradery. Just as the princess was convinced by her new allies to take her just places as the head of fey nobility, she swore vengeance upon those individuals she believed had stood in her way.