Nya was a half-elven necromancer wizard from the town of Port Llast, active in the late 14 century DR.
Nya was a comely young woman with closely buzzed hair. She had pale skin and gaunt cheeks. Her eyes betrayed the suffering the woman endured in the past.
The tome in which Nya kept her necromantic magic was a big book wrapped in leather and decorated with small animal bones. It contained descriptions of many necromantic rituals. Some of the rituals inside included necessary steps in creating a phylactery to trap a soul in and live forever. Another ritual of note detailed a way of releasing a soul trapped inside a phylactery and restoring the magical prison or a vessel.
Nya also carried a number of scrolls, including create undead, raise dead, false life, and detect undead.
thumb|Nyas stall in Port Llast.|330x330px
During the Shadow War of the , Nya made a living by running a herbalists stall in the market of Port Llast. She was always busy, too busy even to tidy up her goods. After the village of Ember was put to the torch by Luskan, Nya provided the adventurer known as Kalach-Cha with wyrmsage extract, a substance that ensured the slaughtered villagers would not return as the undead.
In the years that followed the Shadow War, Port Llasts neighbor – the city of Luskan, saw an opportunity in a weakened state of Neverwinter, its economy still recovering from the two recent wars. Luskan sent a force to claim the port city. This prompted the undead of Gothaladreum to rise and walk the streets of Port Llast every night.
Nya, who possessed some necromantic knowledge, took drastic measures in an attempt to get rid of the usurpers. She ventured into Port Lasts graveyard – Gothaladreum and used her necromantic magic to disturb and raise the spirits and bodies of the dead. She hoped to drive the invaders out by any means, even if they were less than savory. When a band of adventurers arrived in town in order to deal with the unrest, they trashed the necromancer and confronted her. Subsequently, they were faced with a choice secure ghostly Lord Adreum VI and his undead servants help against the Luskanites, or side with the necromancer and her enslaving of the undead. One way or another, the Luskanite occupation ended, but it was unknown if Nya aided the adventurers, was convinced to abandon necromancy, or was killed in the process as Rynn Shepherde of Luskan wanted her executed.