Prostitute
Nyla was a senator of the city-state of Innarlith in the mid-to-late 14 century DR. She was a former prostitute who came to control all prostitution in the city and become one of the wealthiest women in the city-state. Secretly, she was a follower of Bane and also an agent of the Zhentarim.
She wore an eyepatch over one eye.
In the , she was a prostitute working at Firesteap Citadel and gave service to the soldiers of the city-state of Innarlith posted there. Pristoleph, the future Ransar of Innarlith, was her procurer.
She and Pristoleph broke apart on hostile terms two years later regarding a dispute about payment. She ended up going to the tent of a rival of Pristoleph to service the artillerymen. Pristoleph ended up killing this rival and threatening Nyla.
In the , she was present in the fourth quarter of Innarlith where she had a chance encounter with Pristoleph. He was running from a soldier that was hunting him after he had deserted from the military and he ran through an inn where Nyla was at the time. She immediately recognized him and shouted out for someone to stop him, but immediately afterwards she was knocked to the ground by the soldier who was chasing Pristoleph who had accidentally run into her. Some of the patrons of the inn started a brawl. At some point Nyla was injured and lost one of her eyes. Pristoleph escaped and departed from the city-state for a number of years.
By the , she had taken control of the prostitution business in Innarlith and become extremely wealthy. She had become a senator of Innarlith and her prostitutes served many of the other senators.
When Ransar Osorkon ordered a canal to be constructed from the Lake of Steam to the Nagaflow and thus connect the Sea of Fallen Stars to the oceans of Toril, the Zhentarim were opposed to the project because it would take away from the needs of merchants to rely on some of the trade routes they controlled. Nyla contracted a banelar naga to go to the canal site and try to assassinate Ivar Devorast, the chief engineer and main planner of the canal, but Svayyah, a water naga from the Nagaflow, came to help him and killed the banelar. After the failed attempt, she went to meet with Marek Rymüt, a clandestine Red Wizard in Innarlith, who was also trying to stop the canal project on behalf of Thay, to make an alliance with him and offer her help. Marek accepted the offer.