Okku was a god of bears and an ancient spirit of Rashemen.
In life, Okku was a powerful intelligent bear that roamed the wilds of Rashemen. According to him, he was a descendant of the ancient pack of Bhalla. After death, he became a spirit creature venerated by the Rashemi.
At Lake Tirulag, Okku and his pack clashed with a noble wizard known as the Spirit-Eater. Though defeated, Okku was spared by the wizard, whos asked for help in finding an end to a curse, for which he made an oath. However, no cure could be found, and Okku agreed to let the man enter a runic chamber within his barrow and die there so the curse would remain sealed.
thumb|left|Okku in Ashenwood.
In truth, the man had received instruction from Lienna on how to seal the curse with the runes at the bottom, as the Founder wanted to keep the true essence of the spirit eater, Akachi, under containment until she could find a permanent solution. Eventually, in the , she found the Kalach-Cha, who was tied to the Silver Sword of Gith, and after removing the core shard placed the Kalach-Cha in the barrow to receive the curse.
When Safiya retrieved the Kalach-Cha, the spirits began to awake as the spirit eater had reawakened. One of Okkus friends, a wolf telthor named Nakata, was suddenly devoured by the spirit eater curse when she confronted the two at the middle barrow, much to the puzzlement of Safiya and the Kalach-Cha. By the time they reached the exit, Okku was awakened and not in a good mood. Not wanting the curse to get out, he summoned several telthor and attacked. When defeated, he was seemingly banished and Safiya and the Kalach-Cha made their escape. 
However, Okku, along with almost all the spirits of southern Rashemen, were alarmed by the spirit eaters reawakening and soon besieged the gates of Mulsantir, where the Kalach-Cha and Safiya were. Eventually, the Spirit-Eater confronted Okku at the gates under the directive of Sheva Whitefeather. A fierce battle ensued, with Okku empowered by the spirit army, and many of the telthors, dryads, and earth elementals fell before Okku was vulnerable.
Upon defeat, he yielded and urged the Kalach-Cha to quickly finish him off before it awoke, but it was too late. After that, Okkus fate is unclear. If the Kalach-Cha gave into the spirit-eater curse, willingly or unwillingly, then Okku would be devoured and his essence used to make One of Many. But if the Kalach-Cha restrained the hunger, they could have chosen to spare Okku, and Okku would pledge to resume the oath he made for the wizard of years past, to try and help find a way to remove the curse. If the curse was lifted or Akachis soul consumed, Okku would return to his barrow to rest, and would emerge again when a new threat arose against the people of Rashemi, such as from Thay, driving the attackers away with his fellow telthor bears. But if the Kalach-Cha cast away Akachis soul, Okku would go in search of the next spirit eater, wandering eternally without success until despair filled him, his glowing fur dimmed, and the Rashemis memories passed, and with that Okku would fade away.
Though a spirit, Okku still had sharp claws and teeth, but his strength arose from the spirits and beasts that revered him.