chambermaid
Olree was once a chambermaid of Lady Exeltis, mother of Feldran Exeltis. After the Ladys death, Olree was thrown out of Castle Exeltis and forced to change her occupation to that of a fisherwoman of the Blade Cliffs.
Olrees skin and face were wrinkled and spotted with age in her twilight years. Some compared her face to a wrinkled apple, browned over a long winter. She had pale blue eyes that exuded life and glided like a finely polished blade. Her hands were shaky with age.
By the , Olree could often be found in her small fishing camp at the vase of Blade Cliffs, not far from Castle Exeltis. She treated guards and servants of the Exeltis family with disdain and thought them to be fools. Anyone willing to entertain the old fisher would hear a story of the good old days when Lady Exeltis lorded over the Blade Cliffs and surrounding hills. She remembered when grape farming was bustling, and Castle Exeltis was renowned for the special Exeltis Ice Wine created by the family.
In her younger days, Olree served as Lady Exeltis loyal chambermaid for thirty-seven years. For years, Lady Exeltis and her son, Feldran Exeltis, strolled along the brow of high cliffs by the familys castle. After every late-night walk, Olree prepared a hot bath for her Lady until one night, when Feldran returned from a stroll alone. The lordling claimed that his mother slipped and fell to her death, a tale Olree knew was a lie. No-one listened to the aging chambermaids words, and Feldran threw the woman out as soon as he picked up the mantle of the Lord of Castle Exeltis.
After the death of her beloved Lady, Olree survived by fishing and keeping an eye on the Lady Exeltis gravestone, erected where the woman fell to her death. In 1372 DR, the lordling attempted to save his familys failing finances by attracting the beautiful "Princess Soliana of Fanloc" and looking her away in his castle under false pretenses. Solianas consort, Sir Griswald, attempted to rescue his love however, the Castle Exeltis drawbridge was impregnable. Griswald requested the aid of the Hero of Daggerford. The adventurer and his companions found old Olree taking care of Lady Exeltis grave. When informed of the lordlings crime, the fisherwoman drew a map of coastal caverns used by the servants to empty chamberpots every morning. A secret passage allowed the Hero to infiltrate the castle. She said her farewells to the adventurers with a righteous message "When you see that snake Feldran, tell him that old Olree sends her regards!"