Patience was an assassin
While Patience could be considered a no-nonsense individual, she had a rather dry wit. She remained ever vigilant in difficult situations and was already ready for a fight.
She wore a suit of leather armor and carried with her four daggers.
275px|Belvyre, pleading with Patience for them to go on an adventure together.
Patience had a strong bond with Belvyre, having acted as his personal guard his entire life. She was entirely loyal to the young druid and he considered her a dear friend. Belvyre constantly made cutesy nicknames for Patience―such as Pay-Pay or Patty Cake―several of which she had to veto outright.
Throughout their long history together, Belvyre always seemed to get them into peril, and Patience always managed to keep them safe.
Some time during or after the , Patience and Belvyre traveled to the Ten Towns of Icewind Dale to help with the natural disaster known as the Everlasting Rime. When everlasting darkness spread across the region, crops withered and food became scarce. As a skilled herbalist, Belvyre strived to grow new food types and find new sources of warmth. While in town, they met the travelers Saarvin, Runa, and Amos, and heard rumors about an underground city that housed powerful magics. Belvyre grew excited at the prospect, and Patience, as always, accompanied him for protection.
300px|The naive druid and stoic assassin were anunlikely duo, but inseparable from one another.
The group set out across the snowscape of Icewind Dale, and were eventually forced to take refuge in a cave to keep safe from the elements. Unfortunately, their refuge was assailed by a group of frost giant skeletons and the group became scattered when Amos turned on the others, in order to kidnap Belvyre for his magic power. When Runa came to, her mind was altered by a deposit of chardalyn and she attacked Saarvin. Patience attempted to intervene, but barbarians from the Blue Bear tribe intervened, and took everyone captive. Fortunately, Patience and Saarvin were able to talk their way out of the situation and were released.
Patience, Saarvin, Runa and some of the Blue Bear warriors ventured into a cave network within the Spine of the World mountains to rescue Belvyre. When the group caught up to Amos and Belvyre, Patience got some revenge by punch Amons square in the jaw. Belvyre urged them to stop fighting and work together to to escape the caverns, which were erupting with volcanic activity. As magma burst around them, Patience was bowled over and knocked unconscious. Amos sacrificed himself for Belvyre, so the little young halfling could in turn rescue Patience. In the end, all the members of the party save Amos made it to safety, and uncovered a pathway to the lost city they searched for.