Percival was an intelligent squirrel and very close friend of Cadderly Bonaduce. He gained the respect of many adventurers, and was even highly praised by druids.
Although he was a squirrel, Percival was incredibly perceptive, able and loyal to Cadderly and his friends. The white squirrel could comprehend some words and phrases of Common. He was said to be a "most excellent beast" by Arcite, a visiting druid to the Edificant Library.
The small creature enjoyed the company of Cadderly, as well as the cacasa nuts, butter and acorns the young priest would feed him.
Cadderlys bond to Percival became so strong that the priest gained abilities of the creature, and could even sprout white squirrel limbs to climb and leap across terrain, which a human would usually find impossible to traverse, with ease and speed.
Percival had a wealth of achievements during his life, including directly, and indirectly, saving the lives of hundreds of good people, if not more.
Percival saved Cadderlys life from that of his rival, Kierkan Rufo, when he confronted Cadderly with a knife. The squirrel had dexterously hopped from window to window to plant his body into Rufos face as a distraction, giving Cadderly time to act.
The squirrel greatly aided in the effort to save the Edificant Library from the evil cleric, Barjin, who wished to release the Chaos Curse. To do this, he watched the suspicious movements of those in the library, particularly the groundskeeper, Mullivy, whom the squirrel despised. Furthermore, he led Danica and the druid Newander to the tunnels where Mullivy had been lured Newander commented how remarkable the squirrel was. The squirrel then sniffed out the path to Pikel Bouldershoulder, who was resurrected by the druid, and then to Cadderly, who with the help of the others, defeated Barjin. When the first threat was dealt with, Percival hibernated until about a year later. Here, Percival investigated the corruption of the library by undead, and traveled to Shilmista forest to get the help of Shayleigh, the elven ranger. He led her to the library, which helped end the final threat.
Percival also saved Cadderlys lover, Danica, from death several times first during Barjins assault on the library, and secondly from Rufo in his vampiric form.