"Grandfather" Pericolo Topolino was a halfling guildmaster of the Morada Topolino assassins guild in Delthuntle in Aglarond in the late 15 century DR. He appeared to have controlled much of the organized criminal world in Dethuntle and was treated with respect (and fear) by almost everyone.
Pericolo was barely  tall. He had a neat goatee and often wore a fabulous blue beret, which granted him a magical means of disguise. He also owned a magical rapier and a mithral-lined shirt.
In 1472 DR, the reincarnated Regis was living in Delthuntle when Pericolo took notice of him while he was climbing a building to escape a gang of much older and larger youths. Pericolo immediately took an interest in Regis and dubbed him "Spider" for his climbing ability.
Pericolo manipulated Spiders father into allowing Spider to work for him diving for deep oysters, which were cultivated to produce pink pearls. Pericolos long-term obsession was the discovery and plundering of the infamous shipwreck of Thepurls Diamond. The ship was sunk by pirates around the time of the Spellplague and carried the lich Ebonsouls corpse as well as most of his treasure.
In 1481 DR, agents in Pericolos employ found the wreck off the southwestern coast of Aglarond and Pericolo and Spider sailed to the wreck. Spider was able to dive to the wreck and recover several powerful magic items but unfortunately released Ebonsoul from his coffin. Several days later, Ebonsoul appeared as an incorporeal mist at Pericolos mansion and killed the old halfling. Pericolos granddaughter Donnola Topolino gave Spider most of Topolinos belongings, including a bag of holding with the password "For the love of pink pearls".
Pericolo treated Spider like a grandson although his feelings didnt prevent Pericolo from putting Spider in harms way when he deemed profit and adventure were more important. 
His closest friend and advisor, as well as a captain of Morada Topolino, was the mustached mage Wigglefingers, who grew up with Pericolo on Delthuntles streets. 
Pericolos granddaughter Donnola Topolino was one of the captains of Morada Topolino. Pericolo trained her in the ways of a rogue and used her eyes and ears as a socialite.