Edificant Library, Snowflake Mountains
Pikel Bouldershoulder was a dwarf druid of Mielikki and brother of Ivan Bouldershoulder.
Pikel had a dyed-green beard with a part in the middle, with the ends drawn back over his ears to join his long hair at his back in a braid. He wore sandals instead of the traditional boots most dwarves would wear, and long green robes with large long sleeves.
Although Pikel had the ability to talk to animals, he had difficulty being understood by most sentient races and he tended to speak in a language of noises and exclamations rather than formulating complete sentences, for example, "oo oi" followed by a fist punching in the air. Only his brother Ivan could really understand what he was trying to say. In fact, whenever Ivan referred to Pikel as "me brother", Pikel would put an arm around Ivan and echo "Me brudder". Cadderly and Danicas children also had some skill at understanding what he said.
Pikel wore his cooking pot as a helm in times of combat. When that was unavailable, he was also known to wear flower pots and, at some point during the late 15 century DR, an enchanted cooking pot or cauldron known as the harvest cauldron.
His weapon of choice was a massive club he called a "sha-lah-lah"—a shillelagh, a specially enchanted wooden club used by druids. The club was referred to by his brother Ivan as "his tree". He was also said to possess a spikevine club and was once gifted the sickle of careful kindness and the seal of devotion by Laeral Silverhand.
He was said to wear a pair of enchanted shoes known as Autumns Stand and to carry a jar of Keoghtoms ointment, on which he would drum a lullaby as he administered healing.
When Cadderly was trying to defeat the Chaos Curse, Pikel gained some measure of druidic magic. He transformed his tree-club into a shillelagh. He blessed water in a ritual of strange song and dance, thus turning it into holy water to defeat undead creatures. Once he even woke a tree as an ally against a pack of wolves.
As a druid, Pikel could converse with or befriend animals. He was able to predict the weather, and used a special form of transportation in which he could open a portal between two trees in different locations,
Pikel befriended a number of creatures including a giant eagle, two bald-headed vultures, a family of weasels, three chickens, a black bear, a donkey named Bobo, and a snake.
The two brothers were born and raised in Vaasa, within the rugged Galena Mountains. Pikels intent interest in the green and growing natural world led him to develop a quieter and calmer presence and outlook than most of his dwarven brethren. 
In the , Ivan and Pikel fought alongside elves in Shilmista against the orcs and goblins controlled by members of the triumvirate of Castle Trinity.
In the , they set out from Carradoon to attend the coronation of King Bruenor Battlehammer in Mithral Hall far from their place of residence in Spirit Soaring, the home of Cadderly Bonaduce, the high priest of Deneir, his wife Danica, and their three children.
During the battle against Oboulds armies, Pikel lost an arm to a stray piece of projectile slate thrown by the frost giants. Later in the battle, Pikel aided the forces of Mithral Hall by helping Nanfoodle, a gnome of Mirabar, vent explosive gas up from under Keepers Dale and using it to blow up the spine of the western ridge.