| refs2e         = 
Pizentios was a reclusive necromancer inhabiting the island of Sahu in the Crowded Sea in the early 1400s DR.
Pizentios was a truly horrid individual who actually resembled a fresh corpse. His skin was clammy and possessed a blue-gray tint. His lips and fingernails were an even darker shade of blue. His gums were almost black and contrasted sharply with his pearly white teeth, giving his smile a chilling feel. Pizentios was mostly bald and had a large belly. His voice was shockingly emotionless, which often caught others unaware.
Like many wizards, Pizentios was smug and arrogant. Because of the power of his master, Pizentios behaved like a spoiled child who always wanted more.
After recovering from an initiation ritual that nearly killed him and left him horribly disfigured, Pizentios founded a school for necromancers at what was eventually known as the Tower of Pizentios. This small school was devoted to training minions who would serve Pizentios dark master, though the students had no idea what was really going on behind the closed doors in Towers basement.
Pizentios carried a plethora of magic items including a staff of skulls, robes of protection +3, three pots of ghast salve, a potion of vitality, potion of gaseous form, potion of undead control, numerous scrolls, and dust of coagulation. He also sometimes donned a black robe enchanted with the deeppockets spell.
Perhaps his most prized belonging was a shadowblade scimitar that had the power to create shadows from its victims that were under Pizentios control.
Other mundane possessions included a signet ring engraved with the symbol of the Necromancer Kings and fourteen valuable garnets.
In his youth, Pizentios was chosen by the necromancer Nebt Bhakau to be his apprentice. Bhakau eventually sent his apprentice to the island of Sahu to learn the ancient secrets of the Necromancer Kings. While on the isle, Pizentios learned of the capture and demise of his master. He chose to remain on Sahu to avoid a similar fate.
While on Sahu, Pizentios encountered a pack of ghouls that he was able to magically control. The ghouls led him to the Garden of Eternity where he encountered the awesome power of the lich Vermissa. The lich took Pizentios as her apprentice after he swore an oath of fealty to her and her sinister god Thasmudyan.
Because of his service to Thasmudyan, Pizentios was able to perceive hidden auras through enhanced sight and to control the undead.
Pizentios familiar was an imp named Ifrit.