Porto Churlgo was an ambitious and backstabbing son of Millie Churlgo who produced the infamous Churlgo Cheese in the Eastern Farmlands of Daggerford circa 1372 DR.
This young halfling was a lazy individual. His chores and farm work were always done slowly as if he always expected others to pick up slack. Porto dated farm life and dreamed about moving to a big city to paramour lovely city lasses and gamble to his hearts content.
Portos attitude was inflammatory and he was rude to any passersby assuming they were there only to gawk and make fun of the farmers. Porto often put up false bravado, however his words and deeds were often at odds.
Porto, along with other Churlgos moved their farm from the Dalelands to Daggerford following a nasty extortion business with the Iron Throne. In 1372 DR, the farm where they resided was still noticeably un-lived-in, but the cheese-making business was in full swing.
Eventually, Porto Churlgo grew disgruntled with his mother, how she ran the business and the only thing he wanted to do is trike rich and move to Waterdeep to gamble, drink, and wench. He often tried to convince Millie Churlgo that raising cattle and growing grain was more profitable than cheese-making, but the halfling matriarch was committed to the craft that Churlgos polished over several generations. His farm work included taking care of the farms cows and making deliveries of Churlgo Cheeses to the neighboring Gillians Hill from where the cheese was sent tout throughout the Sword Coast.
Harboring a deep resentment for his life and the farm, Porto started secretly working for the agent of the Iron Throne, Yentai, who followed the halflings from the Dalelands. With Portos help, Yentai organized raids on the cheese caravans trying to run Millie Churlgo out of business, while selling the stolen cheese as his own.
Portos betrayal came to light when Millie asked the Hero of Daggerford to accompany one of the cheese shipments to the distributor. The cart was ambushed by a band of brigands who were surprised to see Porto with a well-arm guard. When the scuffle was over, the Hero found instructions for the bandits signed by Yentai. As the Iron Thrones plan started unraveling, Yentai gave Millie an ultimatum. Surrender the recipe and leave the business forever. However, the Hero had proof that Porto conspired behind his mothers back. Greatly saddened, Millie Churlgo ordered her son to leave the farm forever.