gladiator
Prendergast "Gast" Brokengulf was a noble in Waterdeep and heir to the Brokengulf family title in the latter part of the 14 century DR.
By the , his hair was turning gray.
Prendergast preferred being in the wild lands outside the city. He had a narcissistic streak and was jealous of younger men who were trying to achieve the same level of success as he had achieved as a gladiator. He was fearful and somewhat depressed at the prospect of growing old.
He was an expert huntsman and had won much glory as a gladiator on the Field of Triumph in Waterdeep.
Prendergast eventually rose to become the Director of the Field of Triumph.
Gast was the first son of the patriarch of the family, but passed on the title to his younger brother Morus I because he wanted to continue his life as a hunter, gladiator, and agent for his familys business interests.
Gast was good friends with Urtos Phylund II, but by the , he was infatuated with Aridarye Phylund (Urtos IIs young stepmother), and would do anything for her. After she was widowed, they eventually married.
In the , Gast came to blows with Lord Kuldos Roaringhorn in the Twilight Hunters tavern when he asked Kuldos about a rumor hed heard implicating the noble in a scandalous relationship with a young girl in an outlying village. The two sparring nobles were ejected into the street by Song, one of the co-owners and an accomplished wizardess, using a particularly strong gust of wind spell.
The entire Brokengulf family had a vendetta against Claugiyliamatar, the green dragon known as "Old Gnawbones".
In the , Aridarye Phylund used her influence over Prendergast to coerce him into arranging the accident that resulted in the death of her husband, Lord Urtos Phylund I. At the time, the elder Lord Phylund was estranged from his son, Urtos II, who was a close friend of Gast. Nevertheless, Gast was consumed with guilt over this evil deed for many years.
It was Aridarye that pushed Gast to become the Director of the Field of Triumph and to inaugurate the Champions Games, not only to raise his prestige but also create business opportunities for both the Brokengulf and Phylund clans.