The princess of the realm of Doegan in the Utter East during the time of the Bloodforge Wars (648–657 DR). tried to free it from its invaders.
The princess by the side of her father as he lays dying.
Invaders led by Rathgar the Raider overran Doegan, plundered the realm, and laid siege to the capital. Finally, Rathgar came for the crown itself, and confronted the king and princess in their own throne room. However, with his dying breath, the defiant king cursed him, declaring "For so long as you rule, a curse upon you. The dead will arise, to ensure your demise."
Escaping the invaders, the princess of Doegan looked for a way to make her fathers prophecy come true. She went to Old Stone Keep and there met Aelric, a mage of Doegan who was heir to a great magical legacy. Uninterested in wealth or fame, he vowed to aid her and, furthermore, fulfill her fathers curse to take vengeance on those whod occupied his homeland.
The Howl of Vengeance conflict was fought between the two factions using bloodforges.In the Blood & Magic game, two alternate campaigns are provided, one for Aelric and one for Rathgar. These may be mutually exclusive, but it is possible one follows the other or they may be merged as a single back-and-forth conflict. An official history is unknown. The princesss fate is unknown in Rathgars campaign, and so is not presented here.
Aelric and the princess of Doegan in Old Stone Keep.
When Rathgars forces pursued the princess to Old Stone Keep, Aelric protected her and struck back against them in a bloodforge battle, favoring crypt-born creatures. Victorious, Aelric scattered Rathgars own bloodforged forces.
In disarray and dread, Rathgar and his army retreated into the Serpent Valley. The princess and Aelric pursued, exploiting the chaos to once again strike at their foe.
Ultimately, Rathgars army fled to Doegans capital with Aelrics horde hot on his heels. They crashed through the city gates and walls and fought the invaders in the streets, with steel and fire and magic. Thus did Aelric the Avenger fulfil the old kings curse and liberate Doegan. The princess became queen, with Aelric at her side, and brought peace to Doegan.
The princess and Aelric with their undead army.
The princess of Doegan wore a black dress and cape. She had long black hair streaked with white.