Prince Monolith was an elemental lord of awesome power. He was summoned sometimes by the dwarf geomancer Thormud Horn during his summoning in , he investigated the corruption surging from the Celestial Nadir, finally helping re-seal Pandorym.
The size of a small tower, Prince Monolith was humanoid with jagged rocks on its shoulders and a crown of uncut gems on its forehead. Its head was almost shapeless, with two empty caverns for eyes, and a mouth.
Prince Monolith was quick to stress he was in no ones thrall the elemental lord seemed to be opposed to any force corrupting the purity of the elements, going so far as to offer to outstay the duration of his pact in order to gain allies in stamping out such corruptions, even unto his eventual destruction. He showed genuine familiarity with, and concern for, Thormud Horn.
He was also eager to test his strength against foes of similar strength.
As befitting an elemental lord, Prince Monoliths strength was such that he could even rip large demons limb from limb while inside a strength-sapping aura. and he also boasted a mysterious power to grant living beings a small reprieve from supernatural curses afflicting them.
In , the dwarf geomancer Thormud Horn summoned Prince Monolith near Adamas Tooth while investigating a corruption of the energies of the earth. He and his bodyguard, the elf Kiril Duskmourn, were attacked by a demon with a plangent crystal fragment in its chest Prince Monolith arrived quickly and tore the demon in half, then nullified the infection on the crystal. The elemental lord then explained that the true source of the corruption was to the North, in Raurin, and convinced them to head that way instead of to Adamas Tooth by agreeing to overstay the duration of the pact.
Prince Monolith guided Thormud across the Giants Belt mountains to save time they soon discovered that the dwarf had taken ill with a dolor. During a sandstorm, the earth elemental suggested to Kiril that she find shelter for herself and the dwarf in a nearby settlement, which she soon determined to be Al Qahera. After spending the night there, they continued north toward a newly appeared construction in the Raurin, which the geomancer determined to be the ancient Palace of the Purple Emperor. The dwarf declined to enter, asking Kiril and the elemental to go in his stead, and sending his familiar, Xet, with them.
Inside the Palace of the Purple Emperor, Prince Monolith discovered a corrupted water elemental it deemed as deserving of prompt destruction after two elves controlled by Pandorym broke the water beings hibernation, Monolith and Kiril managed to slay it.
Pandoryms darkness almost stopped them at the entrance of the Imperial Weapons Cache, but Ususi was saved by the timely intervention of Qari Manaallin, who gave up her percipience to her sister so that they could defeat Pandorym. Inside the Imperial Weapons Cache, Prince Monolith fought a storm giant with the help of Warian before helping re-engage the seals on Pandoryms prison.
After Pandorym was sealed anew, and his corruption broken, Prince Monolith quickly took Thormud Horn away, seeking medical treatment for the weakened dwarf.