Purvis was a human gravedigger from the town of Lonelywood in Icewind Dale in the late 13 century DR.
Purvis was a light-skinned man with one eye covered by an eyepatch. He wore black rogues garb and spent hours meditating in his lodgings while sitting cross-legged.
Despite his stunted speech and inability to understand much, Purvis owned quite a collection of curios. He carried a potion of extra-healing, a short sword of backstabbing, Edventars Gift, Whispers of Silence, a precious pearl, a fine vintage bottle of Marsember Blush wine, and a pair of Worn Whispers.
Seemingly a simple-minded man, Purvis arrived in the town of Lonelywood in the  and took ownership of a simple shack at the edge of town. His humble vocation was digging holes for the towns dead. He greeted strangers with a simple "You needs a hole?" Purvis was proud of his work, bragging of how deep his holes were so the town didnt stank of the decay. In reality, Purvis was an assassin who put up a masterful charade, even allowing the local hellion child – Hailee Dunn, to bombard him with briarcones. He arrived to Lonelywood only two weeks before the Heroes of Icewind Dale arrived, summoned to aid against the barbarian army of Wylfdenes.
The assassins benefactor was none other than Speaker Baldemar Thurlow, who hired Purvis, through the Council Representative of Targos, to assassinate the barbarian leader. The townies were told that the mysterious one-eyed man whom they saw visit Baldemar was just a representative from the ten Towns. When the word of the assassin got out, the barbarian camp doubled the guard, making Wylfdene unreachable. As the adventurers investigated the threat, Wylfdenes true identity was revealed, and the risen barbarian was put to rest once more. Unwilling to gain the reputation of a failure, Purvis assassinated Speaker Thurlow, wife Arden Thurlow, and just needed to finish off the last witnesses of his failure – the Heroes of Icewind Dale. It was unknown if the confrontation had taken place, but if it did, Purviss life wouldve been forethought.