Duke Pwyll "Greatshout" Daggerford was the ruler of the duchy of Daggerford circa the mid–14 century DR. He defended his people during the Second Dragonspear War of 1366 DR, having become duke after his fathers death in the First Dragonspear War seven years prior.The North Guide to the Savage Frontier states that Duke Pryden died while fighting the "forces of Dragonspear Castle". This is believed to occur during the First Dragonspear War as Pwyll is already duke at the beginning of the Second Dragonspear War, according to Hordes of Dragonspear.
Among the dukes possessions was Daggerfords sword–of–state, Lawflame. This flame tongue blade dated back to the towns first duke.
Duke Pwyll was served well by his court wizard Gwydion pen Dafwyd, Gwydions apprentice (and Pwylls sister) Bronwyn, and his commander of the Daggerford armed forces, Lord Llewellyn Longhand.
He spent much of his time out of town hunting or exploring new opportunities and ways to make better the lives of his people. He often visited the Happy Cow tavern to mingle and talk to his subjects as well as to stay on top of Daggerfords rumor mill. There he often interacted with the establishments manager Demetira Landscraper, who later accompanied him on the faithful boar hunt.
Pwyll Daggerford was born around the .
As a young man, Pwyll lived the life of a daring adventurer. That came to an end at the age of 25 when his brother Merovy died adventuring along the Unicorn Run. Pwylls father Duke Pryden bid his son return home to Daggerford in order to learn how to properly rule their people. While he protested in spirit, Pwyll knew his true duty was to his people and not his own lifestyle.
Duke Pryden fell in battle while fighting the armies of Dragonspear Castle during the First Dragonspear War, in the . Pwyll succeeded him as duke and took command throughout the rest of the campaign. During the sacking of the castle itself, Pwyll found and readily drank from an unidentified potion. It gave him the ability to vocalize a "great shout" that blew foes away in battle.
When the forces of the Dragonspear Castle began a second war in the , Duke Pwyll raised the militia of Daggerford and locked down the town in order to keep it well-defended. This time, the armed forces of Daggerford were led by Dauravyn Redbeard and a band of adventurers, rather than their reigning duke.
Pwyll "Greatshout" met his perceived demise in 1372 DR when he was presumed killed by a wild boar during a hunt. Daggerford mourned the death of the citys leader even though many found the circumstances surrounding his death highly suspicious. Shortly after, a wealthy merchant and a member of the city council Matagar Bugo proclaimed himself the new Duke. During Matagars short reign, a group of adventurers alongside Astriel Shalyn, an agent of the Lords of Waterdeep, discovered a Zhentarim plot to instate a puppet ruler and take over Daggerford. Pwyll and his sister Bronwyn were kept alive in the mines of Illefarn, guarded by Zhent slavers and the corrupt Griffons Mercenary Company. Astriels adventures managed to rescue the Duke and his sister and aid the city against the united forces of the Zhentarim and Gorgomorz. Matagar Bugos short dukedom came to an abrupt end in Gorgomorz hellfire, and Pwyll Daggerford returned to his position as Duke of Daggerford.
Duke Pwyll claimed to be a descendant of Tyndal, the young boy that slew six lizard men in Daggerfords founding story.