Qirmiz min Hudid was a beautiful but deadly agent of the Brotherhood of the True Flame inhabiting Huzuz, the City of Delights, in 1367 DR.
Violent outbursts and mood swings were commonplace when dealing with Qirmiz, causing many individuals who challenged her to experience the full wrath of her blazing power.
Qirmiz was a beautiful woman who possessed auburn hair and a sultry physique. It was said she had the "face of an angel and the heart of a tiger."
True to her fanatic zeal, Qirmiz accepted a special sterility curse from the Bonfire, the mysterious leader of the Brotherhood of the True Flame. The curse prevented anyone with whom she was intimate from fathering children. Qirmiz, under magical guise imitating concubines of the Royal Harim of Huzuz, would trade places with several concubines who were sworn to secrecy, and lie with the Grand Caliph periodically, preventing him from siring more children and producing a male heir. 
However, the curse was not without harmful side effects. Qirmiz herself was permanently sterile, yet the curse infused her with an insatiable appetite for romance. The curse also made her insanely jealous if her latest lover so much as glanced at another woman, prompting her to use her magical power to permanently polymorph all of her lovers into birds which she kept as "pets" in a large aviary within her home. Qirmiz would often transform herself into a bird so she could continue to mate with past lovers.
When she was not pursuing carnal knowledge, Qirmiz used her luxurious manor in the Court District to teach promising flame mages. All of her students were carefully screened using a flame of justice and then placed under a geas so they could never betray the Brotherhood.
In addition to practicing flame magic, Qirmiz studied charm magic with zeal, allowing her to enthrall new lovers with ease.
Qirmiz owned a ring of avian control, a ring of fire resistance, a rod of absorption, a jellaba of eyes, a pair of slippers of levitation, and many magical scrolls.