The Queen Abiding was a demon bound by the binders of Narfell beneath Dun-Tharos. She was released by Marrec on  so she would aid his fight against the Rotting Mans forces,
The Queen Abiding resembled a giant sphere of absolute darkness. She was about a dozen yards across at her largest, She spoke with a pleasant, velvety, even seductive voice, though there was a cloying, thick quality beneath.
Though quite conscious of her binding, the Queen Abiding was pleased to be addressed as Queen. While bound, she was single-minded about being released, and had no compunctions about slaying those who did not mean to assist her in her release. Even after her release, she loathed and begrudged any servitude.
Even in her binding, the Queen Abiding was capable of commanding a unique kind of ice-based demon, and of controlling light and temperature within her barrow, to the point of slaying people by freezing them in the darkness.
Until , the Queen Abiding tried to recover her token of control from the Sighing Vault, After she was released, she remained in Dun-Tharos.
The Queen Abiding was bound by the magicians of Narfell at some point during their reign though she served them, she became trapped after their fall. At some point, her controlling token came into the hands of the Rotting Man after he discarded it, unaware of its function, the demon Eschar took it to the Sighing Vault.
In 1373 DR, the queen related to Marrec and his party that she had been bound for over a thousand years. The party agreed, upon threat of being slain, to recover her token of control. They did so successfully, releasing the Queen Abiding. The Queen immediately captured the demon Eschar, whom she began to digest she agreed to perform one service for Marrec, but only so long as it was in furtherance of her own vengeance against the Rotting Man. On the night of Mirtul 7, Marrec called upon her, and she slew the forces of the Rotting Man menacing Marrecs party. She warned Marrec that she would eat him too if he ever attempted to call upon her again.
The Queen Abiding was served by The Victorious Slayer of Compassion, and other creatures very much the same as it.no name seems to be given in the story for those demons though they are called both "ice demons" and "brumal demons".