| refs5e         = 
Quil Grootslang was a dragonborn minstrel who traveled through the Sword Coast in the late 15 century DR.
Quil was a naïve daydreamer in search of real love.
In the late 15th century DR, the Nashkel Inn hosted a performance by Quil. After the performance, her evening was occupied by chatting with her new admirer, Flaming Fist Orvil. The man later pre-ordered a copy of her love-chants songbook, which was due to be released in 1492 DR. That year, his beheaded corpse was found at the Murder Tribunal in Baldurs Gate, carrying an unfinished letter titled Dear Quil. According to the letter, Orvil aimed to confess his love and arrange a meeting with Quil at the Blushing Mermaid.
Quil Grootslang was born in Tymanther. She ran from her homeland to avoid the marital union her family arranged for her and the "egg-duty". Quil journeyed to the Sword Coast, where she lived for some time. Shed been robbed several times, as she had no martial skills with which to protect herself.
After her clan-name was struck, she named herself after a long-dead poetThe surname of Quil Grootslang may have its roots in a [https//en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Grootslang legendary creature] with the same name in the real world, described as an enormous serpent residing in the deep caves of Richtersveld, South Africa. and performed dragonborn love-chants that were not widely known on the Sword Coast.
For many years during her travels, she prepared a manuscript of new love-chants titled Affairs in Ancient Abeir Songs of Draconic Love. Half of her performances were for a member of the Society of Brilliance who was writing a book about dragonborn society at that time.
In the , she was on her way to Baldurs Gate with her manuscript for it to be published. On her way through the wilderness not far from Moonhaven she was singing Hatchling Love when some goblins stole her horse.
Nothing was known of her further journeys. Some people assumed that she was killed somewhere along the river Chionthar by another dragonborn.
She was a talented throat-singer in Tymantheran style known at least among other dragonborn bards such as Lyrix Goldthroat.Inquired about Quils songs, Lyrix Goldthroat confidently responds with "Of course I do," suggesting that Quil was a well-known musician. Quil sometimes whistled when she snored.