Quiracus was the first mate under Captain Bawr on board of the Narwhal of the Refuge Bay Trading Company circa 1362 DR.
Quiracus was an elf with blonde hair.
Quiracus was personable and charismatic, often warning the ships guests of the best ways to handle the strict captain.
Quiracus served under Captain Bawr as her trusted the first mate and over Nelock, the third in the ships chain of command, the boatswain. Quiracus knew the captain well enough to be agreeable to her face and, if need be, find a workaround for her orders.
Circa 1362 DR, Master Quiracus was the de-facto leader of the crew and, along with other officers, and the ships daily activities and only stepped down at night, when the mysterious captain Bawr was on deck.
In 1362 DR, the Narwhal took upon for new passengers on its trip from Baldurs Gate to the Refugee Bay of Chult. These passengers were two adventurers, Artus Cimber and Hydel Pontifax, and two members of the Cult of Frost, Kaverin Ebonhand and Phyrra al-Quim. Master Quiracus quickly befriended Artus Cimber, who was tasked to work along with the sailors for the trip duration. This friendship, however, was but a ruse. Kaverin Ebonhand, Artus old nemesis who was on the same quest for the fabled Ring of Winter was on board the ship in secret and bribed the first mate to get close to Cimber and assassinate the adventurer.
That opportunity presented itself in close vicinity to Chult, when a dragon turtle Aremag confronted the Narwhal attempting to extort more payment than originally agreed on for the ships passage. As the chaos arose, Quiracus snatched Artus Cimbers journal for Kaverin and told the adventurer to go up to deck. This was against captain Bawr orders, and furious with Artus, she ordered the adventurer to be fed to Aremag as a part of the payment. Artus survived that thanks to Skuld who killed Captain Bawr, trying to defend his master. Quiracus betrayal became obvious, and he retreated into the captains quarters where Kaverin and Phyrra al-Quim were waiting for him. Quiracus pleaded for the Cult of Frost to shelter him from Cimbers revenge. When refused, the first mate threatened to reveal Kaverin Ebonhands involvement to Artus. For that he received a Mulhorandi dagger plunged into his back by Phyrra. The first mates corpse was fed to Cyrics spyder-fiend servants who arrived nightly to torture Kaverin.