Rachel Arren, born Rachel Wykos, was a priestess of Lliira in Waterdeep in the 14 century DR.
Rachel was a woman of medium height with waist-length reddish-brown hair, crystal-blue eyes, and an aquiline nose.
Rachel was known to be an energetic, mercurial, and regularly cheerful person. She found pleasure in almost every aspect of life. However, she had no patience for liars or fools in her life.
Back when she adventured, Rachel typically wore a red tabard over chainmail armor. In her life as a priest, she typically wore tight leather breeches, a flowing tunic, and boots made of doeskin. When engaged in the act of dancing or praying, she wore a billowing, provocative robe over a skintight outfit of orange, red, and yellow silk. 
Outside of clothing, Rachel owned a ring of warmth and three potions of extra-healing.
After taking up residence in the Temple of Good Cheer, Rachel spent much of her time teaching the art of dancing to both the young and old inhabitants of Waterdeep in return for donations. She was especially known to tutor young noblewomen.
Rachel was good friends with Vhonna Deepdell, Madame Garah, Jeryth Phaulkon, and Lauhren.
Following her retirement from adventuring, Rachel still kept in contact with her teammate Travis Deepdell.
Rachel Wykos was born in the city of Neverwinter in 1343 DR. Four years later she moved to the city of Waterdeep with her parents. Growing up she was full of energy and joy, but had a single-mindedness that often got her in trouble with the city guards. She began to show promise in the art of dance at a young age.
At the age of seventeen Rachel met a beautiful, female spectral dancer in a North Ward alley who kissed her and then proceeded to give her a bronze pendant stamped with the symbol of Lliira. She considered this a sign from the goddess herself and from that day onward dedicated herself to the Joybringers service. Soon afterwards, she left Waterdeep with a love-struck boy named Rett and the adventuring company Knights of the Sword Coast.
Following their deaths Rachel continued to adventure with the Knights of the Sword Coast, over time becoming an invaluable member. While adventuring she met and fell in love with a new member of the group, Arkiem Allen. When their group retired in Eleint of 1366 DR, she returned to Waterdeep with Arkiem and married him. With the money they saved up from adventuring to rent rooms in the Temple of Good Cheer in South Ward. From that day onward they worked towards saving up their money so they could purchase the entire decrepit temple from its owner and repair it into a proper temple.
In 1368 DR, she took a young woman named Lahren under her wing, teaching her Liiras blessings of self-worth and happiness. One day during prayer she was surprised when the young girl unwittingly cast light, who then took it as a sign that she should go adventuring. Encouraging the girls zest for adventure, Rachel gifted her a rope of entanglement and a set of bracers of defense.