Rayonde was a red dragonborn pirate
While Rayonde looked like a typical dragonborn for much of his life, his appearance took on a frightening appearance after his possession. His physique became more imposing and his eyes no longer had pupils.
Because of his red scales, and thus bearing a likeness to the hated red dragon Hoondarrh, Rayonde was often the subject of scorn by the people of the Moonshae Isles. Despite this, he remained a magnanimous individual that put the needs of his friends and innocents above his own.
In his youth he was friendly or at least acquainted with the wood elf twins, Karrin and Kerrin.
During their years at sea, Helene and Rayonde fell deeply in love with one another. 
When Rayonde first journeyed to Mintarn to join the White Sails, he met several individuals with whom he would form life-long friendships, two humans, Xander and the young wizard Helene, along with Aiden, a fallen aasimar. The collected friends sailed together for years as members of the White Sails company, eventually joining the crew of Captain Nycto aboard the Hesperornis.
Rayonde and his crewmates were aboard the Hesperornis when it was docked at Mintarn, during the assault of the isle by the dragon Hoondarrh some time before the . The group helped those on the island they could, and came together to heal Helene and help her recover, as she was injured during the chaos of the attack. 
250px|Rayonde left frightened in the moonwell.
Years later, Helene received a vision of the solar Zariel while in meditation in her private sanctum. She beseeched the angel, who unbeknownst to her had fallen from grace, for the power to enact revenge on Hoondarrh for destroying her home village on Norland. Rayonde found Helene and the two traveled back to a ship captained by Aiden, docked at Caer Moray. 
In short time the group was beckoned to assist the village of Dynnegall with marauding members of the Black Blood tribe, and Rayonde and Helene went together to the nearby moonwell to save the townsfolk that were being sacrificed by Mala-worshiping lycanthropes. Helene used the power of the moonwell to call forth dark powers to defeat the Black Bloods, unwittingly offering up Rayonde as a sacrifice to the corrupted Zariel and her new patron, the archdevil Asmodeus. Rayondes body was inhabited by the spirit of the deceased Skadaurak, who began to carry out his rise to power. 
300px|Possessed Rayonde storming Skadaurak Island
Over the years, Rayonde-Skadaurak went on to conquer the isle of Moray and rallied their army to take hold over all the Moonshaes. In response, most of his former friends and companions engaged his in battle, rallying the defense of a sea fort on Aaaron. Protected by his fomorian guards, the possessed red dragonborn took them on in battle, and soon revealed that his amassed army greatly outnumbered those they had mustered. Just before he could defeat the group however, they were carried away to safety by Aiden and his new submarine, the Blue Glaucus.
When Rayondes former companions landed on Skadaurak Island, they became distracted fighting the army of mercenaries and fighters amassed at Skadauraks former lair. Rayonde-Skadaurak quickly killed Aiden in cold blood, drawing Helene into a final confrontation within the heart of the islands volcano. The enraged warlock Helene channeled the power of her patron and blasted Rayondes body, sending it plummeting to the lava below, allowing Skadaurak to take over a new body, that of Hoondarrh the Red Rage.