Razylymingeir, better known as Steelheart, was a female steel dragon active in Vaasa as of the mid-to-late 14 century DR. She spent much of her time in the form of a human, and used the name Katelyn Brekstel.
In her true form, Razylymingeir had grayish-blue scales. In her human form, she adopted the appearance of a conventionally attractive human girl with blonde hair, light grey eyes, tan skin, and a few small moles on her jaw. When she was a juvenile, this human form was about  tall and appeared to be a teenager of 12–14 years old.
Razylymingeir was brave and prone to emotion, likely to burst into tears when sad and to seek furious revenge when aggrieved.
She was fascinated by humans If these companions deduced her true nature, she was polite and apologetic as she attempted to explain her actions.
As a steel dragon, Razylymingeir could breathe a cloud of poison gas. She could also freely polymorph herself, and preferred the forms of small animals&mdashsuch as mice, cats, birds, or snakes&mdashin order to move about undetected. She was also known to adopt other forms during battle&mdashsuch as a tiger&mdashdepending on the situation or space constraints.
Razylymingeir lived in the town of Darmshall, from where she kept a watchful eye on the evil of Castle Perilous. She kept her nature as a dragon hidden, and lived outwardly as "Katelyn Brekstel".
Razylymingeir opposed the Cult of the Dragon.
Her parents were the steel dragons Forge and Glimmerfang. Prior to their deaths, the three dragons lived together in human form in Darmshall, where Forge held the identity "Jarl Brekstel" and served as the town blacksmith while Glimmerfang held the identity "Ingrid Brekstel".
Razylymingeir was hatched circa the , and that she was never to assume her true form in front of a humanoid except in an absolute emergency. The family of steel dragons thus outwardly lived in Darmshall as if Razylymingeir was the ordinary daughter of an ordinary blacksmith and his wife. 
Both of Razylymingeirs parents worked as spies against Zhengyi the Witch-King following his aggression toward Vaasa and Damara in the . They helped to oppose the Witch-King in the Bloodstone Wars, and even after his defeat, the pair continued to keep an eye on his ruined citadel at Castle Perilous, especially as evil chromatic dragons began nesting in the ruins.
In the summer of the ,&mdashher parents attracted the ire of the Cult of the Dragon when they tricked a member into revealing the Cults plans for an alliance with the Zhentarim and an invasion of Thar.&mdashand a white dragon&mdashFrostnax. Razylymingeir escaped by polymorphing into a mouse, but both of her parents were killed after managing to slay Frostnax and wound Flameshoot. The sight of her badly wounded father and of a red dragons maw around her mothers neck was the last time she saw her parents alive.
On the verge of despair, Razylymingeir recalled her parents words about the bravery of humans, and set out to recruit adventurers to help her take revenge on the dragons who slew her parents. With these events behind her, Razylymingeir returned to Darmshall to honor her parents calling of keeping watch on Castle Perilous.
As of the the , a year after the events of Sammasters Rage&mdashin which the Cult of the Dragon used the Dracorage mythal to wreck havoc across Faerûn and in the Cold Lands especially&mdashRazylymingeir continued to keep a wary eye on Castle Perilous.