Regis (), jokingly called Rumblebelly by Bruenor Battlehammer, was the halfling member of the adventuring group known as the Companions of the Hall. He was reincarnated in 1463 DR as Spider Parrafin.
Regis stood just 3 feet (0.9 meters) in height He had curly brown hair, and two of his fingers had been cut off by Artemis Entreri. When traveling, Regis typically wore a fine red shirt, brown vest, and breeches.
Regis appeared the same after his reincarnation as he did before it, albeit he later wore a neatly trimmed mustache and small goatee. Coincidentally, he was also missing the tip of his pinky finger on his left hand, due to the circumstances of his rebirth. He tended to dress stylishly, and often wore his wealth openly entering Luskan in 1483 DR, he wore his bold, blue beret, three weapons on his belt belt (rapier on his left hip, hand crossbow on his right hip, and his dagger behind the crossbow), a blue sash, a black leather sleeveless vest, a white shirt revealing a mithral undershirt, high black boots, and blue leather riding gloves.
Regis preferred to live in comfort more than anything, He could be very cunning and subtle and his experiences and adventurers led him to be wise and observant, even more so than his friends. He also hated violence and cruelty, and avoided it wherever possible. When forced into a fight, he would assist his friends and make only sneaky strikes against their foes. However, when he had to enter battle, he tried to support his allies with sneak attacks against their enemies. After a battle was done, he believed in principle that the bodies of the fallen enemies must be searched. He felt that unlike the other Companions of the Hall, he was not a hero, and relied on them heavily.
After his reincarnation, Regis viewed his second chance at life as a way to develop his skills and "pay back" his friends for all the times they helped him when he was helpless. At times he even provoked fights for practice when he could have easily avoided them.
Regiss birthplace was somewhere in or around Calimport in Calimshan. He grew up on the streets, surviving as a child by begging and stealing. In this life, the head of a local thieves and assassins guild,  Pasha Pook, took an interest in him and claimed him as a thief.
Little was known about Regiss time in Calimport, as he didnt often speak of it to his friends. However, he often accompanied Pasha Pook to social gatherings of landowners, moneylenders, merchants, and ship captains back in Calimport. He also performed various rogues errands. During one heist he discovered that the coins he had stolen were marked, so he distributed them on the streets in the poorest part of the city to both cover his trail and aid the poor.
Regis rose swiftly through the ranks, even being eyed for a role as Associate Guidlmaster. But although Regis did not fail Pook, the halfling in time grew restless and wanted a more restful life. When he witnessed Pook influencing people with an enchanted ruby pendant, he stole it and fled.
But the enraged Pook had his men chase Regis across Faerûn. Thg thief ultimately arrived in the far north, in Icewind Dale, and though himself safe. During this time, he became friends with Bruenor Battlehammer and Drizzt DoUrden.
For some time, Regis served as Lonelywoods council spokesman. In the , after Wulfgars people raided the Ten Towns, Regis retired as council spokesman, although the city continued to use him to "market" the town (by calling it the "Home of the Halfling Hero)." Even after his move to Mithral Hall, Regis maintained a home there for some time.
In the , Regis went with Drizzt, Bruenor, and Wulfgar on their quest to find and re-inhabit Mithral Hall.
But then one of Pasha Pooks agents finally tracked Regis down Artemis Entreri, a deadly assassin. Artemis kidnapped Regis, taking him back to Calimport, and Drizzt, and Wulfgar followed him on a rescue mission. Afterward, Regis stayed in Calimport for a while, though ultimately he was forced out by Artemis and back to the north.
After being freed from Entereris clutches, Regis intended to remain in Calimport for a time, but he was quickly driven out by Entreri and he returned to his friends, who had reclaimed Mithral Hall. However, it turned out Regis was in fact locked away somewhere while Entreri went parading around in his face with the use of Agathas mask. He was able to sow the seeds of discontent among the Companions of the Hall, including turning Wulfgar against Drizzt by convincing him that the drow and Catti-brie had shared a kiss before Wulfgar and Catti-brie were to be wed.
When Drizzt left to return to Menzoberranzan, he told only Regis of his plans and left Guenhwyvar with the halfling. Catti-brie was able to wrangle the information out of him that she needed to follow Drizzt to the Underdark. Knowing that Drizzts journey might provoke a hostile response from the Drow, and finding Bruenor too despondent over Wulfgars death, Regis took command of Mithral Halls forces, marshalling them with surprising skill and dedication.
Settling in at Mithral Hall, Regis served his friend King Bruenor Battlehammer as chief advisor by 1370 DR.
In 1370 DR Regis was in Shallows with the Companions of the Hall when it was attacked. He was stabbed by an orc and fell off the defensive wall of the settlement, but was not seriously hurt. Feeling as though he could not be of any significant use in the battle at Shallows, Regis made his way out in an attempt to summon help. He was spotted by a worg-riding orc and his left arm was mauled, but he was able to use his ruby to charm the orc into riding the worg south.
Bruenor was temporarily incapacitated during the battle and Regis became the steward of Mithral Hall. He stepped down after Bruenor recovered.
In 1376 DR, Regis and Drizzt traveled to Luskan to help Captain Deudermont sponsor a revolution against the Host Tower of the Arcane. 
As the events of the Spellplague reached the Silver Marches in 1385 DR, Catti-bries mind was sent into an area between two planes of existence. In an attempt to recover her, Regis used the ruby pendant and was similarly trapped. After months spent looking for solutions, Regis and Catti-brie both passed away, their souls taken by Mielikki. A pair matching their description were later seen in a magical forest in Icewind Dale called Iruladoon.
In 1463 DR after spending decades (in Faerûn time) in Iruladoon, Mielikki offered the four deceased Companions of the Hall (Catti-brie, Wulfgar, Bruenor, and Regis) a choice of proceeding to their professed deitys home plane or accepting rebirth in Faerûn so that they could aid Drizzt in a trial which would take place twenty-one years in the future.  As did the others, Regis chose rebirth and found himself the newborn son of an impoverished halfling in Delthuntle.  From a very early age Regis was aware of who he really was and worked to hone his martial and roguish skills.
Regiss mother, who had water genasi blood, passed on her ability to hold her breath for long periods of time to Regis and his father Eiverbreen Parrafin put him to work diving for deep oysters in the Sea of Fallen Stars. In 1472 DR, a halfling crime lord known as Grandfather Pericolo Topolino took an interest in Regis and convinced his father to allow Regis to dive for oysters, which Pericolo cultivated to produce pink pearls. Soon after, Regis (who had named himself Spider Parrafin) was unofficially adopted by Pericolo and trained in the ways of the rogue.
In 1481 DR, Pericolo found the location of the wreck of the infamous lich Ebensouls shipwreck and sailed to the site with Regis to dive for the wrecks treasure.  Regis recovered several valuable magical items but in the process released the lich Ebonsoul who subsequently tracked down Pericolo and killed him. Regis fled Delthuntle for the west.
After fleeing Delthuntle, Regis spent several years adventuring with a band of halfings known as the Grinning Ponies under the leadership of Doregardo, still using the name "Spider." He spent several years with the band, then traveled to Luskan (briefly encountering Jarlaxle, who didnt quite recognize him) and then to Icewind Dale in late 1483 DR.
In late 1483 DR, Regis settled in Lonelywood, where Catti-brie found him and helped save him from a band of ruffians from Ship Rethnor. 
In 1484 DR, Regis and Catti-brie were reunited with Drizzt, Bruenor, and Wulfgar in after they found Drizzt with fatal injuries and healed him.
The group continued on toward Mithral Hall, but were waylaid by the events surrounding the Darkening, namely the orc assaults on Nesme. The companions remained in Nesme, offering their aid to the town. At one point, Regis disguised himself as the goblin shaman Kllug in order to lead a smaller group against Nesme so that they might more easily be defeated. The companions eventually left for Mithral Hall, however, and Nesme quickly fell to the orc hordes.
Regis was skilled at making scrimshaw trinkets from materials such as knucklehead trout, a skill he continued to work on after his reincarnation. He was able to speak Orcish, but only at a basic level. He could speak Goblin fluently.
After his reincarnation, Regis learned alchemy under his tutorship with Pericolo Topolino, and he was able to develop his own poisons, including a special pepper he added to crossbow bolts to make them sting. Other potions he could brew included oil of impact, antivenin against drow sleep poison (lasted half a day),, potions of healing, potion of enlargement, and potions that created slippery ice or allowed the drinker to climb with sticky hands and feet.
In his second life, Regis trained extensively with a rapier and dirk, becoming a reasonably skilled fighter. He fancied himself a scout.
In his first life, Regis was the least martially capable companion, mainly playing his part by using a magical ruby pendant to influence the minds of others. He did carry a small mace. He obtained the pendant by stealing it from Pasha Pook, head of the thieves guild in Calimport.
In 1481 DR, Regis recovered a powerful magical dagger from the lich Ebonsouls shipwreck.  The dagger had several side prongs shaped like snakes that the wielder could will to animate to form a defensive grid near the hilt, detach to choke an opponent, or snap a parried blade. The weapon also released a specter of Ebonsoul upon a killing blow or when the detached snakes garroted an enemy. The snake blades took some time to regenerate after being used. From the wreck he also retrieved a magical ring that granted immunity from infravision and any type of heat sensing. The prism ring additionally allowed him to "warp step" some distance away.
After Grandfather Topolino was killed by the lich in that same year, his granddaughter Donnola Pericolo gave Regis Topolinos magical rapier and beret. The rapier sent jolting energy through a parried blade. The beret allowed Regis to disguise himself, even changing his race. However, it did not change his height. The beret had magic that kept it secured to his head.
From Grandfather Topolino he also received a portable alchemy lab, a bag of holding (with the password "For the love of pink pearls"), a magical hand crossbow with poisoned bolts, and a housebreaker harness.
Regis was often seen as a neutral party to the Companions, although he was equally likely to be witnessed sneaking away from any type of confrontation. Bruenor and he were close friends, and Bruenor considered him one of his main advisors, to the extent that he was appointed Steward over Mithral Hall instead of another dwarf. Drizzt trusted him to take good care of Guenhwyvar in his absence.
After his death, Regis seemed to have a close relationship with Catti-brie, having been in Iruladoon with her for quite some time (although they never spoke to each other until the others arrived) and then meeting up with her in Icewind Dale prior to meeting Drizzt in 1484 DR. Catti-brie remembered how Regis had attempted to save her from her Spellplague-induced madness.
After the reincarnated Regis was unofficially adopted by Pericolo Topolino, Regis developed a close relationship with his granddaughter, Donnola Topolino. They eventually became lovers in 1481 DR.
In his second life, Regis had a fat pinto pony named Rumblebelly, named after Bruenors nickname for Regis himself. He was well trained.