Human
| ethnicity      = 
| occupation     = Adventurer
| age            = 
| patron deity   = 
| languages      = 
| basicrefs      = 
| death          = 1358
| deathnotes     = or earlier killed by fellow adventurers
| turned       = 1437
| turnednotes  = or earlier rose as a blueflame ghost
| daterefs       = 
Relve Langral was a blueflame ghost in the late 15 century DR, once an adventurer among the Nine, in the early 14 century DR.
He was a little more talkative than Treth Halonter.
He carried a sword, even as a ghost.
He was shorter than Treth Halonter while a blueflame ghost, he smiled constantly.
While human, Relve Langral had been one of the Nine, a band of adventurers led by Laeral Silverhand. As a blueflame ghost, he was controlled by Marlin Stormserpent.
When a blueflame ghost, Relve Langral could walk through walls.
Relve Langral was a thief among the Nine. Arnthiir Windriiv, all but stating that Relve Langral had died prior to that moment in time.
While a blueflame ghost, Relve Langral claimed to have been a thief among the Nine, reduced to madness before death by the evil Myrkul and then transformed into a blueflame ghost upon it. He had been called forth at some point prior to 1479 DR.
After testing the command to return to the item in the Dragonskull Chamber at Obarskyr Castle, Marlin commanded him and fellow blueflame ghost Treth Halonter go find and kill Seszgar Huntcrown in Suzail. In executing the command, the two went on a rampage. Every time they met someone on the streets, Relve asked if theyd seen Seszgar Huntcrown, with Treth adding immediately if theyd seen him recently. The duo killed anyone who didnt know where he was. Their rampage ended when they came across Belgryn Murenstur they intimidated the man into leading them to the Bold Archer.
After slaying the Huntcrown heir, the two took his corpse to Marlin Stormserpent at Stormserpent Towers he called on them to throw it in the furnace. They were called on afterwards to kill Jharakphred, an artist for hire, after the later painted for Marlin the likenesses of Draskos Crownsilver and Gariskar Dauntinghorn, who were to be the ghosts next target. Later, a frightened Marlin used the ghosts to watch over him in his sleep.
On the evening after the disastrous Council of the Dragon, Treth Halonter and Relve Langral were sent into the palace as part of another plan, this time hatched by Marlin Stormserpent and Traevyn Illance both, in which Marlin would make himself out to be the one who stopped those ghosts. Along the way, however, they were spotted by one of the Lords of Waterdeep, Mirt, by the understeward Corleth Fentable, by the evil archmage vampire Manshoon, who was riding on Corleth Fentables mind at the moment, and finally by the renegade wizard Elminster Aumar. The ghosts were attacked before reaching the palace.
Relve Langral was almost destroyed by one of Elminsters spells, and fled, His next use of the ghosts was to try and capture him some breakfast in the wilderness after he fled Suzail unfortunately for him, the only creature they were able to kill was a bear, as everything else fled the unnatural entities.
The Flying Blade was seized by Cymmarra after she slew Marlin Stormserpent she was building her own collection of those ghosts, which she mobilized towards the Bold Blazon at the Festival of Handras. She later pursued Elminster into a secret cave after he retrieved the belt buckle of Lord Calantar (Lord), secretly a blueflame item, wielding her retinue of ghosts against him there. She stopped using the blueflame items after The Simbul, restored by the belt buckle, slew her.