Rennbuu was the slaad lord of colors, an artistic entity with the power to change patterns and hues. Colorful in mind and body, the flamboyant creative had a rainbow of powers and a motley of tricks at his disposal.
Rennbuu appeared to be a gaunt,  slaad with skin that glowed and swirled in a variety of radiant colors. In stark contrast to the ever-changing complexion of his scales, he also had a long mane of white, frazzled hair.
Out of all the slaad lords, Rennbuus capriciousness was perhaps the most malicious, He loved changing the colors of people and objects and the mayhem that resulted, often doing so in the way he thought would bring the most "harm". For example, he would turn drow white, plaiden dwarves, or make gnomes purple, although despite the sadistic aspect of this behavior, he did so out of pure mischievousness. He took perverse pleasure when his changes affected the lives of others, whether negatively or positively.
If given his way, Rennbuu would personally recolor the entire multiverse. Like many artists he was sometimes gripped by frenetic streaks of creativity in which he focused all time and energy into completing a specific goal. While pretentious and extravagant, Rennbuu appreciated a good sense of style and occasionally spared people and places that showed taste from his artistic powers. He was also an intelligent being with a great deal of knowledge regarding many forms of art throughout the planes, the Material Plane included, and could spend hours conversing with artistic experts of all kinds.
Though he wouldnt hesitate to use his powerful claws and fangs in melee, Rennbuu preferred using the magic at his disposal, whether they be items or powers. He gleefully mocked and taunted his opponents, ridiculing them throughout the battle.
thumb|273px|Rennbuu in the act of transforming a slaads color.
A great variety of spell-like abilities were at Rennbuus disposal, including advanced illusion, color spray, darkness, know alignment, light, plane shift, rainbow pattern, telepathy, and wind walk at will. Thrice each day he could use flame strike and a symbol spell of his choice, and twice per day could use prismatic spray and prismatic wall.
The Lord of Colors most storied ability was his power to change the color of anything by touch alone. The new colors could be whatever combination of shades, tints, and patterns, including solids, stripes, and spots, that Rennbuu so chose. These transmutations could last anywhere from seconds to years to eternity and could only be prematurely undone by a wish spell. In addition, Rennbuu himself was immune to illusions, as well as phantasms.
While he would be little more than a potent nuisance on other planes, the Lord of Colors wielded a power within Limbo that made him a dangerous force to be reckoned with. By changing the color of a slaad, he could actually change them into a different kind of slaad a green slaad turned gray would become an actual gray slaad and vice versa. He could also summon either 5-6 blue or 6-8 red slaadi (with a 50% chance of getting either) to aid him with near-certainty.
Deep inside Limbo was Rennbuus immaculate and impregnable gallery, a sizable collection of artwork he had created as well as any he found especially pleasing enough to bring there for display. Rennbuu was proud of his accomplishments and possessive regarding his creations, desiring his work to be preserved, and would devote entire rooms and even wings of the base to them. The pieces were carefully guarded by a large staff of red and blue slaadi who obeyed him mostly out of fear and partially out of the hope he might transform into a green slaad or better.
The Lord of Colors was a very busy slaad that roamed Limbo and other planes changing colors. Most experienced planar travelers could report coming across at least one of his "fashion victims" on their journeys.
Most red and blue slaadi revered Rennbuu as perhaps the only being capable of improving their lot in life as the weakest of their kind. On the other hand, green, gray, and death slaadi all avoided him so that they wouldnt be changed into lesser forms. Rennbuu, frankly, couldnt care less about either of them,
Rennbuu had formed a strange friendship with Ben-hadar, the Elemental Prince of Good Water, around the slaad lords bizarre artistry. Rennbuu often visited the archomentals city of Sseurgass to admire the colossal, colorful coral reefs, as well as boldly shake up the natural palette, and Ben-Hadar was willing to provide him the raw materials and inspiration.
Rennbuu was one of the newer slaad lords, younger than the likes of Chourst, Ssendam, or Ygorl.
During Rennbuus "Nature Period" he used a mountain and a gigantic forest to create a bewildering monument to Mother Nature.
In a typical tale regarding Rennbuu, a gold dragon returned to her lair to find, much to her dismay, he turned her five hatchlings red, blue, green, black, and white. Their chromatic colorings caused a hard life for each of them.