Rial Potjian was one of the three guildmasters of the Diviners Guild in Ravens Bluff in the 14 century DR.
Rial stood roughly  tall and weighed around . He had brown hair, green eyes, and a very tan weathered skin from the years spent in his homeland.
Rial was a very devoted and compassionate individual who sought to uplift the disenfranchised of society due to what he witnessed during his youth. He also had a fascination with gadgets.
Rial was a diviner type of mage and knew how to cast the following spells
alarm, avoidance, chill touch, clairvoyance, contagion, detect evil, detect magic, enervation, false vision, feign death, hold undead, identify, know alignment, locate object, magic mirror, protection from cantrips, protection from evil, spectral hand, summon shadow, and vampiric touch.
Rial was proficient in the use of daggers, darts, and staves.
Rial possessed a robe of the archmagi, a ring of protection +2, a ring of regeneration, and several potions of longevity.
A lot of this individuals time was spent working on new devices, often tinkering with them in the courtyard of the guild house. He purposely chose this spot so that he could keep an eye on the building itself and all visiting diviners.
Rial was born in the land of Calimshan to a minor noble family of the city of Calimport. During his youth he came to be disillusioned by the decadence of both his family and the ruling class of Calimport. This eventually prompted him to take up the practice of magic and adventuring.
Rials travels took him to the land of Amn, where a gnome diviner by the name of Aberdeen Krestner joined his adventuring company. During one adventure, when fighting drow they encountered within the ruined city of Monrativi Teshy Mir, they caused a wild magic surge that transported them both far away to the ruins Myth Drannor. 
Soon after fighting their way out of Myth Drannor, they met a fellow diviner by the name of Saldo Presto. They came to adventure together for nearly a decade, until deciding to settle down in the city of Ravens Bluff. There they got a residence close to the citys Diviners Guild and devoted much of their time to the study of tomes.
After thwarting the plans of a Red Wizard of Thay that they had overheard in a tavern, the trio earned the respect of the Lord Mayor Charles Oliver OKane and were elected guildmasters of the Diviners Guild by unanimous vote.