Rojak Hammersmith was the dwarven co-owner of The Baker Boys bakery in the Merchants District of Ravens Bluff in the late 14 century DR.
Rojak was an atypical dwarf. He shaved his beard and only had a large handlebar mustache. Unlike many of his kin, he was also was fun-loving, boisterous fellow who did not consume any alcohol. Both men were kind, happy-go-lucky, and friendly, often breaking out into impromptu food-fighting.
Rojak Hammersmith and his partner, the prankster hin named Culwen Furryfeet, ran The Baker Boys bakery on 1 Curios Circle, just off Merchants Way. The hop stood on a small cul-de-sac, with Ephrams Antiquities being its next-door neighbor. Their bakery produced fresh pastries, pies, and donuts daily.
In the , many smaller businesses were targeted by a group of criminals demanding protection money. To make things even more preposterous, these bandits wore the faces of renowned heroes and adventurers of the Living City. These criminals, Marella, Elizza, Moamar, and Rundell, were members of the warlord Myrkyssa Jelans army that waged war on the Vast just a year prior. They used a magic wand that let them take on other peoples guises. The criminals stroke at The Baker Boys and the rest of the shops in its cul-de-sac. Their extortion resulted in Malishars Magicks being a burnt-out husk.
The Baker Boys lost 500 gold ravens paid for "protection" and 300 more in destroyed merchandise. Despite the loss, Culwen and Rojak remained loud and happy, aiming to survive the best they could. Two days later, a group of heroes, who seemingly just did the extortion, returned in the middle of a pie-fight, narrowly escaping the fruit-filled humiliation to their faces. It took some convincing, but Culwen and Rojak believed them to be real individuals who were investigating extortion. Instantly, Bakers warmed up to the adventurers and happily treated them to some of their freshest pastries. Rojak Hammersmiths interview gave the adventurers an invaluable clue that would eventually lead them to finding the culprits. The dwarf remembered that the thugs were carrying mining tools and wore miners boots, as well as they had a distinct smell of underground upon them.