Rokh Manti was a warlock and artificer active in Neverwinter in the late 15 century DR. During the events of the death curse, he was hired by the Harpers to investigate the curses cause.
He was an inventor and crafter of magical contraptions and devices, including traps, tools, vehicles, and even his own body. Virtually the only part of his body that was still original was his brain, with the rest being a construction of his own design. His brain was protected within a brass skull that was equipped with an emergency escape device that could gate it away to a back-up body if needed.
Rokh Manti was on good terms with the Harpers.
He was known to have dealings with the Shadow Thieves of Neverwinter, such as for acquiring magic items needed to build his inventions.
His patron was the enigmatic artificer known as Kwalish.
As of the late 15 century DR, Rokh Manti had designed several devices for the cleric Alfin Biscop, including a trapped lock mechanism for his vault (made by imprisoning imps and mephits inside of glass chess pieces) and a telescope for studying the planes (made from still-living rogue modrons).
Several months into the events of the death curse, at the demand of his patron and with funding from the Harpers, Rokh was tasked with traveling to the Positive Energy plane to investigate claims made by Alfin Biscop and other Harper contacts (including Szass Tam) that the death curse might have been caused by a disruption of the flow of positive energy to Toril. To make this trek, he began construction on a vehicle of his own design intended to travel to the Positive Energy plane. This vehicle was to be made of brass and to resemble a xag-ya (consisting of a small, spherical cockpit with long tentacles) with "eyes" made of a honeycombed arrangement of gems of seeing to allow him a perfect ability to see into the hazardous plane. The craft was also equipped with the ability to emit pulses of negative energy as a defense mechanism.While not stated explicitly, Rokh Mantis vehicle is implied to be a variation on the apparatus of Kwalish. Rokh made use of his Shadow Thieves contacts to acquire the gems of seeing for this project, and while doing so, he let slip to them that the lock which he had made for Alfin Biscops vault involved a life-or-death game of chess. The Shadow Thieves used this information to plan a heist of Biscops mansion, and sent in a skilled chess player named Pion.
Rokh ultimately made use of his brass craft to travel to the Positive Energy plane, and he discovered that all of Torils positive energy was being siphoned directly to Chult. His craft was destroyed soon after this discovery by a group of xag-ya overwhelming it with positive energy, but his brain managed to gate back to the Prime Material plane just in time, allowing him to report back with what he had learned.