Rolf Sunriver was the Chief Constable of Ravens Bluff who was appointed in 1350 DR.Gateway to Ravens Bluff (p. 7) states that Charles OKane has been Mayor of Ravens Bluff for 14 years, which tracks with the later article "Pillars of Ravens Bluff" in Polyhedron #147. This would put the "current year" for the people and events in the sourcebook as approximately 1355 DR.
Rolf stood  tall and weighs  compact and muscular. His elvish heritage showed in the slight point to his ears and his unusually bright green eyes, but otherwise looked human. His skin was tanned from his many years spent in the outdoors.
His nickname of "Sunny" was satirical, owing to Rolf being usually quiet, watchful, and impassive. He had a sense of humor, rangeing from dry to bawdy depending on his mood. He had a distaste for paperwork and preferred to make the rounds, checking on his men and keeping a finger on the pulse of the city.
Rolf was extremely dedicated to his job as Chief Constable, incapable of being bribed, and had a close eye for details that made him an excellent investigator. Whenever he discovered a presence of corruption within the Watchs ranks he would first resort to giving a direct warning, then failing that would make an arrest. He was a superb fighter, constantly honing his skills and training his men, drilling them in techniques as well as the laws of Ravens Bluff.
Rolf typically wore a set of elven chain mail, a surcoat, and a hooded cape.  His badge of office was displayed predominantly on his surcoat and the back of his cape. He typically was not seen carrying any sort of shield. His magical belongings included a +1 ring of protection, a +1 morningstar, a +1 and +3 dagger, an enchanted whip, and a pair of boots of elvenkind. He tended to rely upon these weapons, seldom ever carrying a longbow or longsword, despite being proficient in the use of both.
As a member of the City Watch, Rolf primarily operated from the Central Office of the Watch.
Rolf is the son of a human mercenary and an elvish woman.  Raised among elves until he was 30, he felt uncomfortable as a half-breed and set out to seek his own way.  He traveled the world for the next 30 years working as a mercenary, caravan escort, foot soldier, and even cavalry officer.  He passed through Ravens Bluff several times and made some friends there before he decided to settle down in one place and join the City Watch in 1335 DR.The book states that Rolf Sunriver was appointed to the position of Chief Constable five years ago, but that he had been working in the City Watch for fifteen years prior to that, rising to the rank of Senior Constable. With 1355 DR as our approximated "current year", that would put the start of his employment at 1335 DR.
Over the course of the next 15 years he advanced in rank from an Officer of the watch to Senior Constable. He made enemies in the local thieves guild when he began shutting down smuggling operations in the Warehouse District, and despite their best efforts to get rid of him he was still standing. With little other choice, the rogues were forced to conduct their business in the shadows of his purview.
In 1350 DR, the then-Chief Constable announced his retirement and The guild tried to block his appointment to Chief Constable by bribing some members of the Council of Lords but he exposed the plot which insured his getting the post.
Sunriver tendered his resignation from the City Watch in the wake of the Three Women War, torn from his failure to quell growing gang-related thefts and street violence with the skeleton crew of Watchmen he had at his disposal, and nominated Captain Aven Elonis to head a  special task force dedicated to the investigation of gang-related violence. Lord Chancellor Arvin Kothonos refused to accept the resignation, praising Rolf for the amount of work that he had managed to accomplish given the circumstances, and endorsed his nomination of Elonis.