Rotbite was a horned devil who terrorized the Volkumburgh Vale in the mid-12 and 14 centuries DR,
Rotbite was capable of casting the following spells, even while he was possessing the unique golem Awtawmatawn charm person, suggestion, infravision, know alignment, animate dead, pyrotechnics, produce flame, ESP, detect magic, and wall of fire.
He was also capable of casting fear in a  radius and slow on any creature within  of it, though while inside Awtawmatawn he was unable to summon other horned devils to his aid.
Due to Rotbites natural magic resistance, the spell detect evil could not recognize his presence within Awtawmatawn.
Sometime in the mid-12, Valmous was hired by King Proster Obarskyr to design a new variant of stone golems to help expedite his ambitious building projects. However, while in the final stages of constructing the first one Valmous misfired a spell, which summoned Rotbite on to the Prime Material plane and he quickly possessed the inert Awtawmatawn.
While possessing the golem he proceeded to slaughter all the residents of the College, who were unprepared for such an attack, except for Valmous who managed to escape to the nearby College of Rune Magics. Sensing that college over the mountains, Rotbite moved towards it. The injured Valmous, with the aid of the colleges students, managed to destroy the Awtawmatawn, but not before it had destroyed the other college.
Valmous, now sensing the horned devils presence trapped within the fragments of the Awtawmatawn, tasked the adepts with scattering his pieces across the Volkumburgh Vale. Then, using a combination of their rune magic and his magic items, the rune adepts placed him into a healing stasis, where he awaited the day someone would attempt to recreate the golem. 
In 1358 DR, a man named Lychor introduced the wizard Amelior Amanitas to the fragmented legend of this golem, as well as some fragments of it which he managed to merge back together into an arm through use of potions. After doing so they gave off a magical aura. He then became obsessed with the legend, thinking of the fame he would receive, though he would pass it off as being for the betterment of society.
Ameliors efforts to reconstruct the golem
Amelior later discovered one of the statues feet ( in length) in a temple in Suzail, which locals mistakenly believed to be a piece of Grumbar. In the month of Uktar, some time before the Feast of the Moon, he arranged for the foot to be shrunken down, stolen, and then delivered to him by a group of adventurers in Suzail. Estimating where the other fragments might be, he then tasked them with seeking out the rest of the fragments. During this quest the adventurers would find themselves ambushed by the followers of Valmous, but they managed to fend them off.
Those adventurers went on to recover one of the golems lost hands, hidden beneath a fountain in the village of Volkumburgh. Then with the unseen aid of Rotbite they uncovered an eye and arm of the golem within a secret cavern of the College of Rune Magics. And by disturbing those fragments, the adventurers awoke Valmous. Finally, the adventurers retrieved two halves of the golems leg from the College of Shaping Magic and his head from the Temple of the Dragon Oracle.
A few days after the collected parts were turned in to Amelior, the awakened Valmous and his disciples attacked the village, alongside an army of neanderthals, seeking to destroy the Awtawmatawn. At the same time, Lychor unleashed a counter-force of undead in hopes of both protecting the golem and claiming it for himself. This horde of undead included a hundred skeletons, twenty zombies, and ten wights. 
During this siege Rotbite finally regained full control of the Awtawmatawn and began to rampage around Volkumburg, destroying Ameliors workshop in the process. Ultimately, the golem was destroyed after it fell upon the Crimson Wyrm and down through the cavern that was hidden beneath it.