Rothilion the Honorable was a famous and accomplished great human scholar, judge, and wizard of Myth Drannor. Rothilion died of old age long before the Weeping War and was laid to rest in a glorious crypt in the Polyandrium.
Rothilion was tall human with a peaceful face, medium-short hair, and a thick mustache. He usually wore his ceremonial intricately sown and patterned robe, and a seemingly plain mundane cloak.
In life, Rothilion had a deep appreciation for arts, crafts, and poetry, among other things. He owned countless volumes of poetry and prose that were entombed in his crypts library and gallery halls. He felt fondness for the artisan crafts like smithing, jewelry, tannin, and fletching.
Rothilions crypt contained a many-volumed Tribunal of Myth Drannor, a collection of records of Myth Drannors legislature led by the High Judge himself.
Another voluminous collection of books locked in his crypt was Chronicles of Rothilion, chronicling his live and career.
The main item of note in his possession was the powerful artifact known as Rothilions Staff of Justice, which was kept on his body inside the crypt.
During his long and fulfilling life, Rothilion worshiped Lathander, Tyr, and Oghma. He famously took an oath to forsake the Common language in favor of Elven. He focused his life on studying the lore and culture of Myth Drannor. He used that knowledge to develop, implement, and enforce laws that improved the lives of the citizens of the City of Song. The also became a committed patron of the arts, and authored many books. As he died of old age, he received a heros burial in the Polyandrium district in a big crypt that held any items he appreciated in life.
In 1369 DR, this crypt was unsealed for the first time since his during the Cult of the Dragons attempt to corrupt Myth Drannors mythal via a resurgent pool of radiance. The Crypt of Rothilion was one of the tombs they aimed to excavate in search of the Testament of Jade. The cultist named Nevessam was placed in charge of breaching the crypts arcane seal. The crypt was unsealed by the group of adventurers who started their quest searching kidnapped villagers and were entangled in the plot of defending the ruins and opposing the Cult.