century thief of Hillsfar|Rowan Blackwood
Duke Rowan Darkwood was a nobleman from Oerth that arose as the factol of the Fated in the city of Sigil, the city considered to be the center of the Outer Planes.
The Duke cut an imposing figure. He had a lean but athletic build and stood at  tall. He had many permanent scars that crossed his physique as well as his stern and weathered face. He was blind in one eye, a result of one such laceration.
While he was rather gruff and matter-of-fact when speaking to others, the Duke had a strong-will and stubbornness that could not be disregarded. He took great pride in his methodical and often-irritating manner in which he conducted business, regardless of how it was perceived by others. 
For some reason, the Duke often claimed to be from the world of Toril.
He had a number of innate protections to various magical spells, notable among them hold person, hypnotism, and ray of enfeeblement.
It was widely believed by those in Sigil that Duke Darkwood planned and schemed to take over the heart of Sigil from the Lady of Pain.
The Duke possessed an array of enchanted items and weapons, including a +2 giant slayer sword, a +5 ring of protection, a red ioun stone, a brooch of shielding, and carried with him a portable hole. He armored himself a suit of +3 splint mail, over which he wore a plain set of homespun clothes.
He regularly carried with him potions of hill giant control and growth.
Duke Darkwoods early life was one that could be expected of an Oerthian nobleman. He spent some time as an adventurer before settling down in his lands and starting a family. One fateful day, the Dukes sons accidentally summoned a cornugon named Ammagel by means of a magical deck of cards, and the devil attempted to claim them as his own slaves. Darkwood challenged Ammagel to a second game for the fate of his sons, and set down his own life as forfeit. The Duke won the game. His sons were set free but Darkwood was brought down to the Nine Hells and tortured for the next decade.
Rowan Darkwoods spirit proved indomitable. Ammagel tortured the mortal Duke for years but could not break his spirit. Eventually the malevolent cornugon came to respect his captive for his unshakable will and set him free. While Darkwood somehow managed to leave the Nine Hells of his own accord, he saw his family had moved on with their lives on Oerth, and he instead traveled across the planes.
He did not stay in one place long. Darkwood served as lieutenant to the deity Heimdall and even managed to save the plane of Ysgard from annihilation at some point. He was believed to have traveled to Vaasa in the Cold Lands region of Toril, during the 14 century as it was measured by the Faerûnian calendar.
Eventually the Duke traveled to Sigil in the Outlands and joined the faction known as the Fated. Within one year after his arrival, Duke Rowan Darkwood ascended as its factol. His rapid grab for power challenged the leaders of other factions, like Erin Montgomery of the Sensates.
Some time before the Faerûnian , a play entitled Comedy of Terrors penned by the Doomguard Raelis Shai was performed within the city of Sigil. The play was overtly critical of Duke Darkwood and considered quite defamatory to his character. In response, Duke Darkwood dispatched a band of extra-planar bounty hunters led by the tiefling Aawill to abduct Raelis troupe. The bounty hunters manage to track down the blade HaerDalis to the city of Athkatla on the planet Toril.
An individual matching the Dukes description was present during the Bloodstone Wars when Witch-King Zhengyi was deposed from his throne in Castle Perilous. This individual was said to have gone on to live as a lord and high priest in Vaasa. While Duke Darkwood did claim to have lived in Vaasa prior to his arrival in Sigil, he never confirmed any additional rumors about his involvements there.