| refs35         = 
| alignment4e    = 
| class4e        = 
| refs4e         = 
| alignment5e    = 
| challenge5e    = 
| class5e        = 
| refs5e         = 
Ryld Argith was an elite drow fighter, weapons master, and Master of Melee-Magthere in Menzoberranzan in the mid-14 century DR.
Ryld was unusual for a drow, owing to his large and burly build, with a height and broad chest that were odd for any elf, and especially a drow male.
Although Ryld worshiped Lolth, he was not particularly religious. He was not overly fond of the spider motifs dedicated to Lolth that were so prevalent in Menzoberranzan. He was a sava master. He apparently had a liking for duergar brandy, which he snuck out of Gracklstugh and carried with him on his journeys.
His pragmatism made him prefer simple clothing and manners. He preferred to use heavier weapons and armor than was typical of drow. and later saved the natural lycanthrope Yarno due to this memory.
Ryld was a commoner who grew up in the poor district of Braeryn in Menzoberranzan. When Ryld was six years old, he was involved in one of the nobles notorious Hunts through Braeryn that ended in a massacre by fire. He was badly burned and buried under dead bodies.
As a youth, the twenty-year-old Ryld by chance met Szarrtham Ilplarl, the weapons master of a minor merchant House, who forced him to enroll into Tier Breches Melee-Magthere.
Ryld learned concentration at a young age. At Melee-Magthere, students had to maintain concentration naked while masters dropped poisonous centipedes on them. If students gasped or cried out when bitten, they were punished. On the first breach, they were rapped on the head. On the second breach, they were rapped harder. On the third breach, they were expelled. In Rylds class, only he and five others passed. Unlike most students who finish school after ten years, Ryld simply remained at Melee-Magthere and continued to study, since he had no home worth returning to. One day Ryld voluntarily left Melee-Magthere, then he served in some of the hardest mercenary companies and merchant houses of the city. For the next several decades, he roamed throughout the Underdark, honing his skills in the service of others.
During his teaching years at the academy, Ryld befriended Pharaun Mizzrym, a mage from Sorcere of noble birth. They had as close a relationship as any drow could have. As a teacher, Ryld trained Tathlyn Godeep, Houndaer TuinTarl, and Urlryn (whom Ryld later killed alongside Houndaer in 1372 DR).
Ryld once encountered a ghost of a man whose throat had been slit and was dripping blood.
In the  of the month Marpenoth, Pharaun was assigned by Gromph Baenre to track down a number of missing drow males and Ryld agreed to assist his friend. Unfortunately, their friendship did not prevent Pharaun from leaving him to fend off and presumably die at the hands of pursuers while in a hideout that belonged to renegade drow and driders led by the alhoon Syrzan. Although he survived the encounter, it set a deep rift between them. Previously, Ryld quit as a Master of Melee-Magthere.
Ryld was then chosen for a party led by Quenthel Baenre sent to investigate the Silence of Lolth. During the cataclysmic fall of Ched Nasad, the party met Halisstra Melarn and Danifae Yauntyrr, priestesses of Lolth. Halisstra, doomed survivor of a fallen house, had no choice but to follow the Menzoberranyr to find out the fate of their silent goddess. She fled with them through a portal to the surface land of Anauroch. After a grueling fight against lamias, Halisstra revealed her secret knowledge of drow bardic music, or baequeshel, to pull Ryld from the brink of death.
After visiting the Abyss and losing hopes of ending the Silence of Lolth, Ryld and Halisstra eventually left to try and find a different life devoid of drow corruption. On the surface, they were attacked by a troll and rescued by Eilistraeans. In order to save Ryld, Halisstra claimed to want to convert to the worship of Eilistraee, but the claim quickly became her true desire and she joined the dancing priestesses. This left Ryld feeling isolated and doubting his decision to follow Halisstra to the surface. In his view, there were three reasons to return to Menzoberranzan 1) he was an outcast from the Eilistraeeans for killing a giant sloth, 2) he was not a worshiper of Eilistraee, and 3) he was male. There was only one reason to stay Halisstra.
Now during the  in Velarswood of Harrowdale, while Halisstra was being judged by Eilistraee, Ryld encountered a young werewolf boy named Yarno who had bitten Ryld while transformed. Yarnos grandfather gave Ryld belladonna to ward off the lycanthropy infection, which Ryld later ate as the full moon rose and he began to transform. Ryld relied on the deep breathing meditation technique honed in Melee-Magathere to keep his control against the lycanthropic bloodlust. During his inner battle, Ryld hallucinated that a naked female drow was watching and judging him before a werewolf leapt through the figure, then laid beside him as he passed out. When he woke at dawn, Yarno was cooking rat and claimed not to remember anything of the night when asked about the woman. Ryld saw similarity between Yarno and himself, from eating rats as a street urchin to being hunted by drow nobles, as Yarno was hunted by Eilistraean priestesses. Ryld warned and taught Yarno a life skill first aids wound dressing, which the boy would use to survive another day. However later, because of Rylds surface association with the Church of Eilistraee, Yarno was bitterly disillusioned and lost trust in him to the point of vowing to never trust a drow again since that new dawn.
Halisstra was given the task to retrieve the Crescent Blade in order to kill Lolth. She intended to retrieve the blade alone, but Ryld secretly followed her to the Cold Field. There they encountered a purple worm, which poisoned Ryld and swallowed Halisstra. Halisstra was able to escape, using the Crescent Blade she found within the worm to cut herself free, and carried Ryld to the edge of the moor, where the priestesses Uluyara and Feliane found them and healed them.
When Danifae contacted Halisstra and Ryld, Halisstra went to meet her and the draegloth Jeggred Baenre, despite Rylds warnings not to trust her. Danifae ordered Jeggred to kill Ryld in a battle that slaughtered an entire house full of loggers in the Flooded Forest. Ryld was able to cut off one of Jeggreds hands, but the draegloth used an enchanted axe (taken from a soldier killed in the midst of the struggle) to break Rylds sword and slay him. The draegloth then ate Rylds heart.
Later, in the Astral Plane, while searching for Lolth, Halisstra encountered Rylds spirit as she came upon a procession of souls moving to the new Demonweb Pits. He told her that he loved her, but he nevertheless chose to go to the afterlife with Lolth.
He was a fighter specializing in the greatsword. He had experience with mobile combat, riding and could proficiently use the crossbow.
Rather than wearing chain mail under the traditional +4 piwafwi of resistance, as most drow did, Ryld wore black duergar-made mithral plate mail (+5 mithral breastplate of lightning resistance and silent moves) and enchanted vambraces (+4 gauntlets of dexterity
He wielded a magical greatsword known as Splitter. Splitter was deceptively light for its size, was capable of penetrating nearly any material, and dispelled magic with a successful hit. Ryld liked to attend to his sword, having convinced himself that the sword (though not sentient) appreciated it.
Ryld also employed a wickedly sharp +3 ghost touch short sword for close encounters. He also carried a +2 crossbow with 50 x +3 bolts, but rarely used it.
Ryld had two magical rings. When he left Quenthels expedition, he gave the lesser ring to Danifae to "prove" he was returning. The greater ring known as the Masters Ring had a dragon on it and marked him as a master of Melee-Magthere, and made his skin as tough as a dragons. Ryld carried a Melee-Magthere emblem. The emblem allowed him to levitate similar to a noble drows house insignia.
During his travel with Halisstra, Ryld wore Splitter strapped across his back a cuirass with a breastplate wrought of dwarven bronze and vambraces, articulated at the elbows, that sheathed his lean, muscled arms in heavy steel. A short sword for fighting at close quarters hung in a scabbard at his hip. His piwafwi was worn with filled pockets.
During their travels, Ryld grew close to Halisstra Melarn of Ched Nasad, developing a relationship and even coming to love her. While Ryld was hesitant to develop a trusting relationship with her, being wary and hardened from the betrayal of his once close friend Pharaun, the two developed trust after an encounter with a troll on the surface where Halisstra stayed behind to help Ryld despite the certainty of their death. Ryld mused on these feelings that were atypical to his prior experiences with female drow, and wondered if Halisstra had cast a spell on him and even tried to dispel it with his enchanted sword. He felt out of place on the surface and in the company of the Eilistraeans, but he remained for Halisstra. He worried over her safety and followed her into the Cold Fields despite her insistence on going alone, and later vocalized the likelihood of a trap set by Danifae. Despite these feelings of love for Halisstra, Ryld remained a pragmatic drow of the Underdark. He never understood the Eilistraeans displeasure over the giant sloths death, calculatingly dispatched the half-orc ferryman that overheard their conversation (to Halisstras displeasure), and dispassionately killed the unlucky humans in the logging village during his battle with Jeggred. He died loving Halisstra, but nevertheless was unable to change his drow nature as she had, and chose to go to the Demonweb Pits for an afterlife with Lolth.
Pharaun Mizzrym was a close friend of Rylds who was also atypical among male drow. They were also fellow instructors at their respective schools. Pharaun provided Ryld insight into decent drow nobles and many connections that benefited the lone mercenary. Before 1372 DR, the close friends shared many dark adventures in the Underdark.. However, during the Silence of Lolth, their friendship fell apart.
A natural werewolf boy befriended by Ryld during the full moon night in Velarswood during Halisstras trial night to become part of the Eilistraeans in the early winter months of the . Yarnos bullied and hunted demeanor induced Ryld to feel compassionate for the boy because both shared similar pasts. This made the Master of Melee-Magthere act to protect Yarno against others and warning the boy to stay away from Eilistraeans. However by being a comrade to the group, Ryld lost his newfound friendship with the boy. Ryld did not even blame him for biting him during his change. After seeing the drow warrior with the Eilistraean Halisstra the dawn after Rylds survival, Yarno vowed to never trust a drow again. At dawn, Ryld gratuitously ate Yarnos roasted rat. He even taught and cautioned Yarno about wound dressing first aid as a necessary survival skill in the future.
Tathlyn Godeep, Houndaer TuinTarl, and Urlryn were Rylds former students. Due to their actions causing harm to the drow and the necessity to complete his assigned task, Ryld killed them in combat when they sought to kill him in 1372 DR.