Sheikh Saar was the leader of the Bait Mahwa tribe of the Bedine people for a time during the mid–14 century DR.
He was a burly man with a hard face and eyes that hinted at his cunning and experience.
Among the members of numerous Bedine tribes, Saar was known as a particularly intelligent leader. 
Saar had a strong ally in Sheikh Utaiba, leader of the Razhadi tribe. During the times Saar grew contentious with others, it was Utaiba who could calm his friend and help him listen to reason.
In the , Sheikh Saar was approached by Yhekal, an agent of the Zhentarim that hoped to form an "alliance" between his tribe and the outlander merchants group. The meeting was interrupted by the Qahtani sorceress Ruha and the Harpers agent Lander, who warned that the Zhentilar army slaughtered the Mtair Dhafir and Qahtan tribes. They traveled to the Well of the Chasm to regroup with tan allied tribe, routing the Zhent camp outside the oasis, and joining the Razhadi in another victory at the Battle of the Chasm.
Following the battles, Saar and Utaiba brought together fifteen other sheikhs of the Bedine tribes to the sacred Elahzad oasis to confer on what was to be done with the Zhentarim threat. They ultimately decided to fight as one united people, gathering all the Bedine within over a tendays ride away from the oasis. Under the united leadership, the Bedine went on to claim victory against the asabis at the Battle of the Fissures, and finally turn away the Zhentarim from the Sword during the siege of Orofin.
Over a decade later, in the , the Shadow Sea formed over the Shoal of Thirst, a result of the terraforming and weather manipulation caused by the Shadovar residents of the returned Netherese city of Thultanthar. Saar and the Mahwa saw this new source of water as a blessing and they regularly camped upon its shore. In short time they forewent their nomadic ways and accepted the new leisurely lifestyle presented to them.
That same year Saar reunited with Ruha for the first time since their shared victory over the Zhentarim. Ruha had been discreetly traveling across Anauroch with her new allies Caladnei and Hhormun of Cormyr, in search of Thultanthars resting place. The two parties each used the others strength to their advantage supported by the Cormyrean mages, Saar stole a herd of the Shadovars flying veserab mounts, and the Cormyreans used the Bedines raid to draw out the location of the Shadovars forces, leading back to their city.