SaSani was a yuan-ti princess of the Sauringar tribe on the Chultan Peninsula and a priestess of Sseth in the 1370s DR.
SaSani had sharp facial features and an alluring appearance. Despite it and her haughty attitude, she had a serious demeanor and steeled determination, and she expected results from her employees and associates.
Apart from being a talented merchant, SaSani was a capable wizard.
Before the , yuan-ti followers of Sseth were tasked with infiltrating mercantile organizations of the Sword Coast in order to fill the void in trade left by the Shadow War and spread the snake gods influence and become the shadow rulers of the region. SaSani helmed the Mercantile House, the most successful trading company in Samarach, diligently spreading the influence of her house into the Sword Coast through her associates in the Crossroad Keep.
In 1374 DR, House SeSehen betrayed Sseth and House Sauringar by pledging their allegiance to the interloper deity Zehir. The yuan-ti of House SeSehen started attacking the Sauringar, slaughtering many and taking control of the Temple of World Serpent. And unbeknownst to SaSani, her loyal business associates started sabotaging the Mercantile House. A group of adventurers, along with SaSanis business associate, famed Volothamp Geddarm, sailed from the Sword Coast to Samarach aboard the Vigilant. Luaire Farwander, a merchant under the employ of SaSani, secretly a yuan-ti pureblood of Zehir, was onboard the ship and successfully caused its wreck through sabotage. Suspicious of the ships destruction, SaSani hired the adventurers for their own protection from the xenophobic Samarachans and to pursue her won goals. She sent the heroes to investigate the shipwreck under the false pretense of insurance investigation. Eventually, the investigation led to Luaires exposure and death.
When the news of Luaire Farwander being a dreaded yuan-ti reached the Elite Guard of Samargol, SaSani claimed that even association with the scaled menace was dangerous for her business. Captain Dajos promptly informed SaSani that due to her association with the snake-folk, she was to leave Samargol by the following days sunset and not return while the yuan-ti menace was investigated. Her authority was withdrawn by the Council, and the Mercantile Houses control – was given to Osi Tchaluka. SaSani used her contacts with the gnomes who ran the Lantan-Samarach portal to flee to the Crossroad Keep on the Sword Coast, away from Samargols laws. There, with the help of the adventurers, SaSani continued growing her mercantile empire and continued investigation into strange disappearances of her allies, and numerous sabotages of trade along the Sword Coast. As a talented merchant, SaSani knew that profiteering off of Neverwinters crumbling economy after the Shadow War would only damage the economic balance of the region. Instead, she sought to boost the trade to reach her long-term goals, including restoring her good standing with Samarach via bribes.
Her first order was for the adventurers to establish contact and partnership with one of the most prominent merchant operations at the time – the Circle of Friends, the Forgotten Lords, or the Fated Winds of Neverwinters Temple of Waukeen. All three groups worked with SaSanis business associates whose operations she took over in Crossroads Keep. The adventurers were to find information on the associates disappearance, eventually leading them to uncover the Snaketongue cults conspiracy. Subsequently, SaSani manipulated them into attacking and destroying House SeSehen, which was behind the Snaketongue cultists attempt to take over the Sword Coasts commerce.
Under SaSanis leadership, her Mercantile House established trading posts in settlements near Crossroads Keep, including Highcliff, Thundertree, Phandalin, Leilon, and Neverwinter.