Saarvin, the self-titled King of Frozenfar, was a dragonborn adventurer of gold dragon descent who wandered the lands of the North and the Sword Coast North, protecting others during the late 15 century DR.
Saarvin was quite enthusiastic and boastful, and often shared fantastic stories of his exploits with his fellow travelers. 
right|400px|Saarvin and his adventuring companion Runa.
The high-spirited wilderness guide had many friends across the North and Sword Coast, including Dasharra Keldabar the griffon-rider, the adventurers Minsc and Delina, and the druid Belvyre of Bryn Shander.
He forged a close bond with the Uthgardt barbarian Runa. While Runa originally felt indebted to Saarvin for saving her life, he felt it an act of honor between two protectors of the North.
At one time, Saarvin traveled the Waterdeep on the Sword Coast North to search for new friends and new challenges, and began performing missions on behalf of Open Lord Laeral Silverhand. During this time he developed a good-natured but mildly antagonistic relationship with Mirt, with the two finding ways to mock each other.
Saarvin was born in the settlement of Fireshear,
Some time during the 1480s DR, Saarvin came to the aid of the Heroes of Baldurs Gate when they were ambushed by ogres. Shortly after their meeting, Saarvin fought alongside the heroes in defense of Fireshear, when it was threated by Gryttmort and his frost giant. After the giants were defeated, Saarvin used his extensive knowledge of the trails along Cold Crag Peak to guide the heroes to the lair of Nilanthe, the white dragon. To save Fireshear, Saarvin and the heroes soared to the fortress of Svardborg, and recovered the lost orb of dragonkind that was stolen by the giants.
At the time when the Everlasting Rime afflicted the North, in the , Saarvin could be found traveling the bleak landscape of Icewind Dale. It was during one of his treks that he encountered the Uthgardt barbarian Runa and an outlander named Amos unsuccessfully battling a remorhaz. After Saarvin saved the travelers lives, the trio returned to the Ten Towns and met with the druid Belvyre and his bodyguard Patience. The group vowed to work together to find an ancient ruined city that held powerful magic that could help Belvyre grow enough croups to help feed the beleaguered Ten Towns.
During their journey to underground city beneath the Reghed Glacier, the group was attacked by frost giant skeletons, and Runa was exposed to a growth of chardalyn that drove her into a murderous frenzy. Amos used the chaos to abduct Belvyre and steal his frostbrand walking staff for himself. Runa meanwhile attempted to slay Saarvin, and was only subdued when fellow members of the Blue Bear tribe arrived to intervene. The Uthgardt barbarians were themselves ready to kill Saarvin and Patience. They halted all aggressions however, when Runa snapped came to her senses and agree to carry on with their mission.
Once they arrived at the glacier, the Saarvin and his two companions delved into an old, seemingly-abandoned mine. They fought against groups of duergar loyal to Xardorok Sunblight ruler of the Sunblight fortress. When confronted with overwhelming odds, the trio received aid from Runas fellow tribespeople. While they found Belvyre and Amos within the volcanic depths of the glacier, Saarvin was nearly plunged into its depths by an erupting fissure. Runa managed to grab him just in time, saving his life and honoring her debt. Reunited together, Saarvin, Runa, Patience, and Belvyre managed to climb to safety, marveling at the bountiful growth cause by the magic released from the depths of the glacier.
Saarvin claimed to have climbed the tallest peak in the Spine of the World mountain range and stolen from the hoard of a white dragon, while it slumbered mere feat away.