| refs4e         = 
| alignment5e    = 
| class5e        = 
| refs5e         = 
Sabine was a mercenary general who served the city of Neverwinter, and later led the Neverwinter Guard, during the later years of the 15 century DR.
Sabine was rather tall and well-built, even for a soldier. Her dark hair framed a scarred face that seldom, if ever held a smile. She was fittingly described as being "tough-as-nails". 
Sabine was a military leader through-and-through. She exhibited the confidence, discipline, and tactical acumen befitting a woman of her rank and accomplishment. She was wholly loyal to the city of Neverwinter and its leader Dagult Neverember.
She did not suffer fools or take the emotional considerations of others into much account.
While she was highly efficient in her duties as a commander she often demonstrated over-confidence that could be interpreted as weakness. 
Besides being the commander officer for her mercenary forces, General Sabine was also in charge of all of Neverwinter military forces.
Unlike other followers of Neverember, she was not really an ally of him, and while she was loyal and never betrayed him, she did so only because Neverember paid her well.
She was aided in her duties by her good friend and swordcaptain, Muln Horan, along with her Captain of the Wall, Durham Shaw.
The Ashmadai leader, Mordai Vell, often invited her to his estate to try to win her to his side.
General Sabine and her forces were hired by Neverember when he started his New Neverwinter movement in the . 
Over a decade later, in the , a "Lost Heir" of the Alagondar bloodline made public his claim to the throne of Neverwinter. In response, General Sabine hired a group of adventurers to track down the so-called heir and discover his true intentions. Later on she hired the adventurers in their fight against the plaguechanged monsters summoned by the "Lost Heir".
The death of Muln Horan later that year hit her hard, and she mourned her old friend for a time.
When the time came to finally defeat Valindra Shadowmantle, General Sabine worked alongside the Heroes of the Sleeping Dragon Bridge and her citys heroes, Alphonse Knox, Celeste, and Makos, to finally destroy the lich at the Dread Ring located in the Neverwinter Wood.
Some time later, the Mintarn mercenaries deserted Lord Neverember because of the actions of the Cloaked Ascendancy, Sabine remained loyal. She stayed in Neverwinter, taking up the mantle of general of the Neverwinter Guard.
As of the , Sabine was still working for Neverember. That year she accompanied Lord Neverember and Jelvus Grinch to a meeting with Bruenor Battlehammer and Emerus Warcrown in Neverwinter to discuss the reclamation of Gauntlgrym from the drow.