Sabrast Windriver was a Cormyrean noble in the mid-14 century DR.
He was quite acerbic and cynical.
His holdings were comically extensive as of , including a villa on Turnhelm Street, stables on Sarangar Lane, a city manor on Ambel Row, business offices on Waervar Street, a hideaway of sorts on Westchapel Way, cottages on Brightstar Street, Waymoot and Undelmring Street, a country state on Gray Oaks, and a hunting lodge in Mouth o Gargoyles. He owed 36,000 golden lions in back taxes as of that year solely in land taxes for those properties, but also owned around two score other houses and about a hundred farms upstate.
He also owned a number of ships, including a yacht which, at the time, was moored on Moonever. Per the port rolls of Suzail, his ships had departed from the port sixteen times but arrived at the port twenty times as of that season, implying he had at least five ships. However, at least two different ships used the same charter and name.
He personally attested, as well, to more properties, such as the Olde Lace and Glitterswash chain of shops in Sembia, as well as four more mistresses, implying he had each of them in yet another property.
He did not send his family any money, including his wife, his daughter, and his three sons, Falorian Windriver, Arastor Windriver, and Bralzaer Windriver. Elminster Aumar owed him for some great services, and Andrast knew how to see through his disguises.
During a revel in Ches 14 of , Sabrast Windriver was joined by Andemel Graeven and Raurild Sarpath. After they discussed some of Andemels schemes and joked with Raurild over his wife, he was accosted by the precept Immult Murauvyn, who was looking to extract back taxes from the man, and brought both Vangerdahast and several Purple Dragons to bring him for forced labor if he continued to withhold payment. He was bailed out of the matter by Elminster, who teleported in a wealth of money for him, and warned that he would release three or four small dragons if his intercession was rejected.
Mystra later counterfeited Sabrasts own memories of the event and diverted them to Elminsters mind, until in the , they were misappropriated by the archdevil Nergal.