Captain Samuel Turgat was the captain of the Flyingfish ship from Daggerford, active circa 1372 DR.
Samuel Turgat was a somewhat lanky middle-aged human male with dark medium-length hair and a fine mustache that framed his thin mouth.
Captain Turgat was considered the nicest marine vessel captain in Daggerford. Samuel spoke with a thick and put-on pirate dialect, rolling his rs and abusing the words of the trade. However, that was nothing but a show he seldom dropped, thinking that this dialect was expected from a man of his profession. When faced with non-sailors, Turgat felt comfortable enough to speak in his regular eloquent and educated manner.
Unlike many sea-faring folks, Turgat preferred reading to blackout drinking and could often be found doing just that in his cabin.
Trulit & Greegons claret‎‎ was one of the goods that Turgats vessel traded in.
Samuel Turgat was an alias of a man who used to work at the Sorcellers Encapsulate, a mage library and guild of Daggerford. There the young man read through nearly every book, eventually coming across the book named Turgats Revene, a work of fiction. That adventure novel told the story of Captain Samuel Turgat and his sidekick Doctor Algernon. Enamored with dreams of adventures on the high sea, "Samuel" purchased a boat he called Flyingfish using his sizable inheritance and legally changed his name to that of the fictional pirate. He hired a crew of "scurvy scallywags" and set to build his new life.
In 1372 DR, Captain Turgat was forced to dock in Daggerford after his ship suffered some damage in a fierce gale. The captain let his crew get drunk on their shore leave as he supervised the repairs. When Samuel Turgat met the Hero of Daggerford, he welcomed the opportunity to speak without the pirate jargon that tired him out. He informed the adventurer about a suspicious frigate docked next to the Flyingfish, the Barracuda. The ship had exclusively been loaded up under cover of darkness from suspicious barges that traveled up the Delimbiyr River.