Screaming Wind was a tabaxi member of the Emerald Enclave who was stationed in Port Nyanzaru in Chult in the late 15 century DR.
Screaming Wind had yellow fur with black spots. Her eyes were green. Although she was young, she was wise and an accomplished hunter.
Screaming Wind only spoke when she had something of importance to say, and those who knew her also knew to listen when she spoke. She preferred to stay out of large groups.
If attacked without someone to protect, she preferred to flee.
Screaming Wind lived in a small house at the south end of Malars Throat in Port Nyanzaru. She sought to protect the people of Malars Throat from various dangers of the jungle, and fought alongside Port Nyanzarus Citizens Brigade to this end. She could often be found near Ubtaos Jaws providing food to hungry children.
She would task her allies in the Emerald Enclave with things like helping her to collect bile from undead dinosaurs, which she hoped could be used to make a cure for the diseases that such monsters spread, or retrieving the heart of a long-dead yuan-ti abomination to likewise contribute to a project meant to save lives.
She served as an important contact in Port Nyanzaru for members of the Emerald Encalve. Her fellow Emerald Enclave agents in the city included Brittlebeard and Qawasha.
She occasionally cooperated with representatives from other factions within Port Nyanzaru, such as when several of them elected to hire the mercenary Pozzanna Lordeaux to secure a stronghold within the Chultan jungle, when they rallied behind Hawkdriver Mazugulak to drive back an undead attack on the city, or when they came together under Alastar Bol to send agents to investigate undead forces stemming from the ruined city of Matolo.
She had a flying cat named MowMow, who served as her messenger.
Born and raised in Chult,
During the events of the death curse around , Screaming Wind found herself fighting pterafolk that appeared in Malars Throat and kidnapped locals, stealing them away to a section of jungle that was blighted by the presence of a part of the Dreamers Amulet given to a group of grungs. 
She subsequently began investigating the use of a drug known as Wanderlost that was being used to poison dinosaurs in Port Nyanzarus dinosaur races, and traced the supplier to the Satchel Shop in Malars Throat.
When an elf named Xalph Brylar appeared in Port Nyanzaru seeking his long-lost daughter, Dalnira Brylar, Screaming Wind sought to aid him as Dalnira had been an adventurer hired by the Emerald Enclave for a sensitive job at the time of her disappearance.
When Port Nyanzaru came under attack by the fiendish forces of Idrianne Smoke, Screaming Wind came to fear that the Merchant Prince Ifan Talroa had betrayed the city, and sought to investigate his secret office in Tiryki Anchorage.