Sejellus Krimp was a merchant distributor of local goods across the Sword Coast who lived in Gillians Hill, a small hamlet along the Trade Way circa 1372 DR.
Sejellus was a stout spectacled dwarf with a braided beard. He was a busy and honest man who was always swamped by his distributor job. He was a bureaucrat and kept close track of his business. Each delivery of goods he accepted was accompanied with the full payment and a receipt document confirming the transaction.
Sejellus Krimp was an opportunity for profit in helping the local famers sell their goods across the Sword Coast. He assembled a small network of transporters and traders, who took over the transportation and reselling job. Without Sejellus distribution services, the farmers were forced to spent valuable time transporting their goods into far off places and exposed to the dangers of the road but with Sejellus help they were able to reach wider consumer up and down the Trade Way and had more time growing crops, tending to the livestock and making goods.
Jouka Ansaar, the local wainwright, was gainfully employed by Sejellus Krimp, repairing all of the numerous distributors wagons.
By the late 14 century DR, Sejellus Krimp was one of the oldest inhabitants of Gillians Hill with only Torleth Mindulspeer living in the hamlet for a longer period of time.
In 1372 DR, Sejellus Krimp started doing business with Millie Churlgo, distributing her peculiar Churlgo Cheese in Waterdeep, Daggerford, and throughout the Sword Coast. He regularly and personally accepted deliveries performed by Millies disgruntled son Porto Churlgo. However, eventually, he became increasingly iterated because the shipments were arriving at an irregular pace and accompanied by random things and mercenaries. In reality, these shipments were completed by the bandits who were trying to cripple the Churlgo Cheese business and pocketing the cheese coin at behest of Yentai, an agent of the Iron Throne. These strange deliveries rose suspicions in Sejellus and he was considering dropping the Churlgo farm as a supplier.
During the same period of time, Sejellus Krimp represented the closest thing to governance the hamlet of Gillians Hill had. The dwarf made sure the township was respected and protected, and he posted regular bounties on the heads of bandits and marauders who threatened the Trade Way, the town, or his business. One such problem was the Gillians Hill Gang, a small group of bandits and neer-do-wells who used the ruined tower of Gillian Cantilar as a flophouse and menaced the trade passing through the hamlet. Sejellus Krimp posted a bounty on their heads in Daggerford in 1372 DR, and later, the Hero of Daggerford rid the hamlet of the bandits, claiming the bounty of 500 gold coins.