Bladesinger
Seldra Tylmarande was a half-elf member of the Tylmarande family, who attempted to claim the throne of Neverwinter in 1479 DR using some clever ruses.
Seldra was described as an attractive brunette woman. She commonly wore leather armor with a brown cloak and wielded a longsword that she kept at her hip. She also had a spellscar on her arm.
As the "Lost Heir", Seldra wore plate armor with a full helm that obscured her face. Atop the helm was the Crown of Neverwinter. She also wore a purple cloak.
Seldras parents (both of whom were half-elves) were adventurers. Aribeth de Tylmarande was Seldras great-great-aunt.
Often quiet and introspective, when she did speak she was assertive but also diplomatic. She appeared open-minded but was in truth highly manipulative.
Seldra felt that her aunt Aribeths legacy was one she had to live down. She chose to restore the good name of her family by removing the tyranny of Dagult Neverember from her home city.
Seldra was born with a spellscar that allowed her to create and exert limited control over plaguechanged creatures. She claimed to have inherited it from her father. 
In the late years of the 15 century DR, Seldra was an spy in service to Dagult Neverember.
In 1479 DR, while Seldra was visiting Waterdeep when a wizard approached her and gave her a replica of the Crown of Neverwinter, albeit Seldra believed it was the original. She hoped to use it to rally the people of Neverwinter around herself and depose the tyrant Neverember, redeeming her familys name. She later hired some adventurers to escort her and a coffer to her home city of Neverwinter. The fake Crown was in the coffer.
A Red Wizard named Tolivast, in service to Valindra Shadowmantle, had learned that she was transporting the supposed Crown and stole it as soon as Seldras ship arrived in Neverwinter.
With her Crown in hand, Seldra continued with her plan. She invented a male persona and used her skills as a spy to convince people that he was a lost heir of House Alagondar, Unknown to all, however, Tolivast had managed to place a curse on the Crown before it was taken back and the more that Seldra wore it, the more it drove her insane. She became increasingly paranoid as her grip on reality slipped from her fingers.
Seldras plan was to use her spellscar to orchestrate attacks on Neverwinter by plaguechanged creatures under her command then to swoop in as the Lost Heir and save the day. Within a week, Neverwinter was on the brink of civil war as regular folk claiming loyalty to the lost heir came into increasing friction with Lord Neverembers Mintarn Mercenaries.
Neverember hired a group of adventurers to perform an investigation
A running battle ensued and the adventurers discovered Seldras identity but Seldra released a plaguechanged white dragon that she had previously petrified, hoping to assassinate Lord Neverember with it but the plucky adventurers managed to defeat it before it could do any real damage. Seldra was later defeated and when the Crown was taken away from her, she recovered her sanity.
Seldra survived the battle against the adventurers (and she may have even helped them to defeat the dragon),As "Storm over Neverwinter" references the events of the Darkening. she was still one of the patients of Helms Hold, and one of the few who resisted the psychic manipulations of Elden Vargas. By that time, her health was greatly deteriorated because of her spellscar.