Shaakat was a male vrock sent to uncover a legendary bloodforge for General Raachaak but attempted to claim it for himself circa 1371 DR.
Shaakat demonstrated ambition and hunger for power. He did not hesitate to lie, threaten, and betray in his search for bloodforge.
Like other vrocks, Shaakat could fly, blink, and secrete a horrific mucus that turned into burrowing vines when sprayed on a victim. He was able to feel, or smell magical gates from afar.
Shaakat owned a magical obsidian javelin called Ggatzshriiegk. The javelin could easily pierce a demon, if not a few when lined up for a perfect throw, and it could be recalled by Shaakat to Toril from the Abyss.
In 1371 DR, Morbaat, Shaakat, and Rejik were ordered by General Raachaak to find a way into a city in the Utter East that contained a fabled bloodforge. As Morbaat, who stood out of line with Raachaak, was stomped into the ground by the general, Rejik and Shaakat fled towards the portal to the Prime Material Plane.
The vrocks reached the recently resettled city with relative ease, even though the city was warded with magical barriers. Shaakat smelled the portal that led into the city, giving the tanarri their goal. They stalked a couple of sentinels that left the city. The vrocks screeched at the horses and the humans they stalked, stunning them. Shaakat and Rejik sprayed one of the warriors with sticky secretions from their glands. The mucus turned into burrowing vines that quickly dispatched one warrior. The vrocks probed the surviving warrior for information about the portal that led into the city, namely the portal in Undermountains Sargauth Level.
The vrocks slaughtered their way through slithermorphs, ibrandlin, illithids, undead, and beholders, as well as replicas of themselves created via a magical mirror located not far from the portal itself and the portal pyramid. Shaakat hatched a plan to take the bloodforge for himself, double-crossing General Raachaak.
Shaakat and Rejik summoned barlguras and manes to serve as their troops and multiplied their numbers using the magical mirror, creating a horde. To the tanarris dismay, however, the portal was password-protected and they had no way of penetrating the wards of the city holding the bloodforge. This was when the paladins on the rescue mission, led by heroes Miltiades, Kern Desanea, and Aleena Paladinstar, reached the portal pyramid. The paladins had the password.
The battle between the paladins of Tyr and tanarri was intense. Rejik was herding the demons and controlling the demon waves as Shaakat was using his hellish obsidian javelin Ggatzshriiegk. In the fray, Ggatzshriiegk was broken and lost under collapsing rocks. The evil vrocks murdered each hero one after another. As the last paladin fell, the vrocks focused on captured young adventurer Kastonoph Nesher. Unbeknownst to Shaakat and Rejik, the paladins used the same magical mirror to create replicas of themselves, sending them into the fray as cannon-fodder, while the heroes themselves found a way to the portal and the vrocks. The winged tanarri did not fare well under the surprise assault, retreating back to the Abyss only to face the wrath of Raachaak, who was happy to torture Shaakat and Rejik for their miserable failure.