Shakti Hunzrin was a powerful traitor-priestess of Lolth and Vhaeraun in Menzoberranzan in the 14 century DR. She hated Liriel Baenre, pursuing her across Faerun and trying to kill her several times, but she was not successful. 
Shakti was solid by drow standards, even plump, and had hard red eyes. She was nearsighted from birth, but in 1361 DR she was able to heal herself by the power of Lolth and Vhaeraun. During her time in the Abyss, she was reshaped and became lithe and more attractive, which was noted with surprise by Gromph Baenre.
Shakti had no sense of humor.
Shaktis greatest passion was rothé farming—she was in charge of House Hunzrins rothé herds on the Isle of Rothe in Lake Donigarten. In fact, she initially didnt want to be a priestess, but she appreciated the power it gave her.
Shaktis weapon of choice, like that of her family, was an enchanted pitchfork, although she later relied more on her snake-headed whip conferred upon her when she became a high priestess. All the snake heads from her whip died in her confrontation with Liriel and later deteriorated to bones, but they were enchanted as undead snakes and functioned as the regular whip of a high priestess. These snakes could also go hunt on their own.
Shakti allied herself with many others in her pursuit of Liriel, including Matron Mother Triel Baenre, Gromph Baenre, Nisstyre and the Dragons Hoard, the illithid Vestress of Ascarle, High Captain Rethnor of Luskan, and Gorlist.
She had an oni bodyguard named Korokai.
While seeking revenge against her rival Liriel, Shakti approached Nisstyre, a known follower of Vhaeraun, and offered to become a "traitor priestess" serving both Lolth and Vhaeraun and offering her services to Nisstyre. She placed a magic ruby on Nisstryres forehead, allowing her to see through it, speak with Nisstryre and even to mentally harm him. She monitored his activities with it until his demise at Liriels hands.
In , Shakti was ordained a high priestess, despite not having completed all her years at Arach-Tinilith. She was tasked with returning Liriel to Menzoberrazan, which prompted her alliance with Rethnor and the Kraken Society. After failing to capture Liriel, she met her again in Ascarle, where she challenged her to a naishedareth, but Liriel swiftly dispatched her by sending her into the Abyss. She would wander amidst the mists, defending herself from demons and incubi until a yochlol appeared before her. She gave her a piwafwi, a soul bubble, a spider silk dress, and enchanted her whip, bringing it back as an undead weapon. Then they took a portal back to the Material Plane.
After her sojourn in the Abyss, she went back to Menzoberrazan, where she told Triel Baenre of her failure to retrieve Liriel, but showing her that she still had the favor of Lolth. She also allied with Gromph Baenre, telling him that Liriel died and that she could take her place as an informant and ally. Everyone showed her much more respect and deference after her return. With her older sister dead of a wasting disease, in which she may have been involved, she became the eldest daughter, who would become matron mother one day.
Being tasked with Liriels return to Menzoberrazan, she employed the Dragons Hoard, now under Gorlist, who was obsessed with killing Liriel. They tracked her down to Rashemen, where they confronted the forces of Rashemen and those of Eilistraee in a fight that led to Liriel healing the bond between the land and the spirits, but leaving the link between the magic of the Underdark and the surface untouched, thus allowing magic from the Underdark to be used in the Land Above. Shakti killed Ysolde during the fight and escaped the priestesses of Eilistraee. She then finally faced Liriel, who repeated her refusal to go back to Menzoberrazan. Liriel gave her the Windwalker (now spent and useless) and a wychlarans mask, allowing Shakti to appear as Liriel and avoiding House Baenres prying eyes on the surface. She finally left without violence, alleging that if she could overcome drows uncontrolled hate, she could be anyones equal.
Shakti became Matron Mother of House Hunzrin in the  and began exerting control over the day-to-day essential resources of Menzoberranzan.
By the , Shakti was strongly allied with House Barrison DelArmgo.