Shalar Simgulphin was a human fighter, minstrel, and Harper agent in Waterdeep in the mid-to-late 14 century DR.
Shalar started life in a small and dull village in Tethyr, with a cruel father. To escape this life, while still a child, she disguised herself as a man and enlisted as a soldier. Coming to enjoy the freedom and independence this granted, Shalar dressed and acted like a man ever since.
Shalar once joined Khelben Arunsun, together with Mirt the Merciless, Durnan, Piergeiron, Kitten, and some of the Blackstaffs fellow mages and apprentices in destroying a beholder and rescuing the body of the slain Harper mage Savengriff.
Shalar had settled in the city of Waterdeep by 1357 and was still there through 1368 DR.
Shalar was both a member of the Harpers and a friend of the Lords of Waterdeep. However, all but a few of them were unaware of Shalars true nature, namely, that he was female.
Shalar had a slender and graceful yet masculine build, courtesy of padded clothing, and a red beard. This was genuine, being created by occasional castings of the cantrip hairy by Khelben Arunsun.
Although Shalar could be quick-tempered, she had a sharp humor and a kind nature.
A minstrel by profession, Shalar sang with a tenor voice at the Inn of the Dripping Dagger and various other taverns in Waterdeep, and made enough coin to live on. For a fair fee, he would tutor others in the art. Otherwise, he was independent and kept a low profile.
Shalar assisted fellow Harpers as best he could, usually to provide healing, food, a shelter, or a hideout. She knew the citys alleys and sewers like the back of her hand and her contacts included some of the most influential and powerful people in the city. However, Shalar avoided going on adventures with others, unless it was absolutely necessary to save another, and not without a cost.
In particular, Shalar was the regular contact of fellow Harper Coril, coincidentally also a female living as a man. They met in a tavern somewhere in Waterdeep once each month, Shalar heard Corils reports and gave him new instructions and 50 gp for living expenses.
She was armed with a luck blade +1 and usually had a number of potions of extra-healing to hand.