Shaloss Ethenfrost was a wizard of Silverymoon. Once the Captain of the citys Spellguard, he proclaimed himself High Mage, ruling the city for only two months whilst under siege by the Black Horde.
Shaloss was already a Captain in the fledgling Spellguard by 1235 DR, but, nonetheless, he craved more. So great were his desires, his greediness, that he took up the empty mantle of High Mage for himself, hoping its added duties (and the power that came with it) would satisfy him. When Alustriel Silverhand arrived in Silverymoon, saving "his" city in the process, Shaloss also revealed a calculating side of his. He knew that she would quickly gain public support, and so suddenly engaged her in magical combat to eliminate her as a future political rival.
Despite being their High Mage, Shalosss relationship with the Silvaeren was tenuous at best, for their concerns about the orc siege far outweighed any worries they might have had about the wizards tyrannical behavior. The man did, however, have a pair of apprentices. These two, at least, were willing to fight alongside him against the usurping Alustriel.
At some point between Eleint of  and 1235 DR, Shaloss was made a Captain of the Spellguard, which was a project of Silverymoons last officially elected leader, Silvermayor Theomel Scalson. It was during that latter year that the militarys leader, Warlord Khallos Shieldsunder, took control of the city, whose army Shaloss and the other Spellguards fought alongside to repel the Black Horde.
In one battle, however, Khallos, too, was slain. The citys forces rallied together for another month as more and more orcs arrived to besiege Silverymoons walls. It was then that Shaloss took the name of High Mage for himself, foregoing any formal process of election, and he was able to keep the title for two months as the city continued to eke out its own survival.
By the end of Shalloss two months, however, help arrived. Alustriel Silverhand, aided by her sister, Storm Silverhand, and the unified forces of the Harpers, finally ended the siege that had threatened the Gem of the North for so long. Though the woman seemed a ray of hope to the Silvaeren, Alustriel threatened the weak tyranny Shaloss had put in place, and so, moving quickly once she passed into Silverymoons walls, he and his apprentices attacked her with the full force of their Art. It was a spectacular combat, but even outnumbering her three-to-one, both Shaloss and his aides were utterly destroyed.