Shandie Freefoot was a halfling rogue from Baldurs Gate. She had great skill with the shortbow and dreamed to become a longbow archer.
Shandie favored bluntness and getting quickly to the point. She had the charismatic and lighthearted nature common to halflings, even making light of the abilities of the city guard while she was in combat with the Cult of the Dragon.
Drawing from her experience in dangerous situations, Shandie was focused and confident under pressure. She kept cool even under dire stress, able to hold still in order to shoot accurately. She itched to prove herself in archery.
She was very skilled in archery, able to hit moving targets from very far away with great precision.
Shandie was also an accomplished bowyer and fletcher. As part of perfecting her technique and understanding the entire process of using a bow, as well as to improve her own confidence with the weapon, she learned to craft high-quality bows from a single piece of wood. She also whittled her own arrows.
Shandie owned a quiver of Ehlonna that she acquired over the course of her adventures.
At some point she became the companion of Krydle.
Shandie grew up in Baldurs Gates Lower City. She took an interest in archery after witnessing a bowmans elegant accuracy and took up training with bow and arrow despite being advised against it by halfling elders.
Later on in life, Shandie and her partner Krydle came across two people fleeing from the Watch, the elven sorceress Delina and what appeared to be Minsc, the living embodiment of the Beloved Ranger statue. The pair of good-hearted thieves agreed to help them flee the city, as Shandie had a soft spot for elves. They made a deal with the Fetcher, agreeing to deliver a message to Krydles father Coran in exchange for safe passage from Baldurs Gate.
250px|Sometimes even the best archers...
Shandie, Krydle and the two adventurers manage to gain passage into a revel hosted by a Baldurian patriar family, but soon ran afoul of members of the restored cult of the Dragon. A fight broke out at the grand party, followed by a rooftop chase atop the buildings of the upper city. While Shandie demonstrated her expert skill as an archer, the cultists managed to abduct Delina and return them to their leader, her twin brother Deniak. 
350px|...fail to strike true on their target.
Continuing the fight on the side of goodness, the remaining trio tracked down the cultists hidden lair and broke in just as Deniak was completing a ritual that used Delinas power to transform himself into a red dragon. Reunited, the four heroes worked together to down the giant wyrm before it wreaked too much destruction in the city. After fighting for the good of others, Shandie, Krydle, Minsc, Boo and Delina decided to continue working together as adventurers.
When taking on a job to protect the local temple of Kelemvor in the city, Shandie and her companions were tested again by a werewolf attack. Despite their best efforts, the lycanthropic wolves managed to abduct the Kelemvorite cleric Nerys along with numerous relics safeguarded at the temple. Just as they had before, the heroes managed to track down and help free the missing priest. However this time a cloud of otherworldly mist surrounded them and their foes alike, transporting them to the dark realm of Barovia in the Shadowfell.
350px|Shandie, knocking some sense into her companions.
The group traveled the strange land for some time, coming across a camp of vistani caravanners, and eventually a young vintner whose carriage was assaulted by a pack of vicious ghouls. Shandie and her companions saved the young man, Adrian Martikov, who then proceeded to offer them shelter at the Wizard of Wines vineyards. Following Minscs shift, Shandie took watch as her fellows got some much-needed rest, but was forced to prevent her friends from killing one another when their dreams were haunted by memories of their past.
After arriving at the fortified town of Vallaki, the heroes reunited with the werewolves that first brought them to Barovia. They fought off the pack along with their vampiric master Sangin, but were confronted by none other than Baron Strahd von Zarovich. Following Nerys charge, they attacked Strahd but could not penetrate his defenses. While Shandie was able to nullify some of the vampire lords illusions, they were little match for his immense power. When it appeared they were truly defeated, the curse of Strahds past manifested and Delina used her arcane power to transport the group back to safety on Toril.
The adventurers found themselves in the frigid north of the Realms, in the Spine of the World mountains. Although the group quickly found shelter from the elements in a cave, Krydle took on a despairing attitude and Shandie had to remind him he was better than that behavior. After fighting off some ogres and meeting a new ally named Saarvin, they made their way to Fireshear and got some good rest for the first time in days. When a band of frost giants led by Gryttmort attacked the isolated settlement, the heroes came to its defense, and even managed to capture a member of the giant war-band.
250px|Facing off against the Blades of Burgust.
Shandie and her group learned of Gryttmorts plan to steal an orb of dragonkind from the white dragon Nilanthe at Cold Crag Peak, While they were able to briefly ally themselves with Nilanthe by agreeing to recover her eggs from the frost giants lair, they could not stop Gryttmort from seizing the orb and taking control of the white dragons mind. With the help of Saarvin, Dasharra Keldabar and local leaders of Fireshear, The heroes managed to infiltrate the frost giants glacial lair, and draw out the giants into a fierce battle. Shandie scored a precise shot with her bow on Gryttmorts hand, causing him to drop the orb of dragonkind, freeing the white dragons from his control and turning the tide of the battle in their favor.
True to their word, Shandie and her companions saved Nilanthes eggs, return to her the orb of dragonkind, and returned to Fireshear as heroes. They celebrated their victory with the townspeople, before returning to Baldurs Gate.
Back in Baldurs Gate, Shandie accompanied Krydle as he uncovered the activities of his old gang, the Blades of Burgust. Together they helped foil an assassination attempt of Krydles father Coran, a member of the Parliament of Peers, when the Blades broke into a secret meeting at High Hall.
After reuniting with their friends at a tavern, Shandie and the others discovered that Nerys had been infected with lycanthropy during their time in Barovia. Working with Father Alby of Kelemvors church, the group helped restrain Nerys in here werewolf form during the ritual that would purge her of the curse. They were successful and Nerys was restored to her true self. 
When Shandie and her companions reunited, they learned that Minsc and Delina had come across a beleaguered member of the Hellriders named Aubree Lucent. They helped her investigate an infernal puzzle box at Fremin Greers shop, before making the journey south to Candlekeep. While uncovering the secrets of the box with the help of Sylvira Savikas, one of Delinas wild surges caused the group to be transported to Elutrel just as the city was being pulled down to the plane of Avernus.
While in the streets of Elturel, the group quickly became separated from one another. Shandie and Krydle ran from a pursuing spinagon, before being lured by a band of chain devils. Shandie was strung up by chains in an abandoned building, and Krydle was left alone to bargain his soul for her well being. Krydle offered his soul to the erinyes Oreasha, and carried Shandie to safety and set out to find their friends. They fought through some some more devils, before facing off against the Archduke of Avernus herself, Zariel. Shandie and her companions survived long enough to accompany Elturel to its return to Faerûn, while she was none the wiser about the infernal pact Krydle made to ensure her safety as well as that of their friends.