Sharwyn was a human bard originally from the city of Neverwinter in the mid–14 century DR.
She was fascinated with music and stories and had a case of hero-worship when meeting Drogan Drogansons pupil.
Sharwyn was born to a family in Neverwinter. Her father perished early, and the widowed mother squandered the inheritance on a lavish lifestyle. Trying to reacquire wealth through her daughters bed, Sharwyns mother tasked the young woman with seducing a lord. However, at a party where she was to seduce the noble, Sharwyn fell in love with a poor bard instead. The couple tried to keep the affair a secret but was forced to run away when it came to light. Sharwyn, following her heart, embittered her mother and forever ruined their relationship. The mother felt like Sharwyn abandoned her and remained resentful even when Sharwyn tried to reconnect. Years later, Sharwyn attempted to cure her mother when she was on her deathbed by seeking the celestial elixir.
Subsequently, Sharwyns relationship with the poor bard came to an end, too. The couple traveled the countryside together for many years until, one day, they were summoned to entertain a famous king and queen. The king was a corpulent man who had no appreciation for the arts but the queen was a beautiful young lass who set her eyes on Sharwyns beloved. The bard couple became favorites of the court and were invited to move into the castle. Still, soon, as the young bards private performances for the queen grew in frequency, Sharwyn began suspecting a love affair – the suspicion that soon was confirmed. Heartbroken, Sharwyn fled, leaving her young bard behind in the queens embrace. Sadly, Sharwyn soon discovered that the infidelity was the result of a spell cast by the queen – an illusion that hid the queens girth and advanced age. Sharwyn vowed to break the queens magic and expose her true self, not because she still loved the young bard but because she craved vengeance. To counter her magic, Sharwyn needed to find a lock of nymphs hair.
The  saw Sharwyn returning to the Jewel of the North, the city of Neverwinter, where she became a part of the events that led to ending the outbreak of the Wailing Death plague. Along with several other heroes, Sharwyn was hired by Aribeth de Tylmarande on behalf of Lord Nasher, offering her adventuring prowess to the Hero of Neverwinter, and became involved in the subsequent investigation and the Neverwinter-Luskan war. Her main drive in the adventure was a search for a story she would attempt to weave stories of the Hero of Neverwinter and the Betrayer, Aribeth de Tylmarande, albeit unsuccessfully. Sharwyns quest led her to discover a story of an elven man Tamorlyn. The elf lived a happy life with his wife and children but left them to go on a quest to discover what was missing from his heart. He pursued the goddess of love and eventually found her, imploring the deity to reveal the true meaning of love. The goddess of love agreed to reveal it to Tamorlyn, where he was to bring her three bounties. The elf spent centuries performing the deitys task. Then the quest was over, and Tamorlyn discovered that his family had all perished from a disease. The grieving man began crying, and his wailing became a song dedicated to love. Touched by the song, the goddess of love took the elf to Arvandor to join his wife and children in the afterlife. Later, Sharwyn decided to search for the actual transcript of Tamorlyns song of love, and she may have had found it with the help of the Hero of Neverwinter.
Following the resolution of the Neverwinter-Luskan war, Sharwyn decided to stay in Neverwinter for a little while. She and her companions were hailed as heroes and sponsored by Lord Nasher Alagondar to aid with the rebuilding of the Neverwintran militia. However, the Hero of Neverwinter left the city after a disagreement with Nasher, and a man, whom Sharwyn met during the rebuilding and fell in love with, left the city soon after. She could not stay, feeling lonely, and eventually traveled to the city of Waterdeep when the City of Splendors became threatened by the drow from the Undermountain. The Masked Lords, rulers of Waterdeep, determined that the danger was indeed coming from Undermountain, and Durnan, the proprietor of the Yawning Portal, put out a call for adventurers willing to traverse the mega-dungeon and route the evil within. Sharwyn, as well as several other companions of the Hero of Neverwinter, answered the call. She was part of a battle that emerged at the Yawning Portal when drow assassins poured out of the dungeon. Surviving the battle, Sharwyn and other adventurers rushed into Undermountain after the attackers, where she was slain by a poisoned arrow.
A brave adventurer, the famed Drogan Drogansons pupil, followed them, armed with a rod of resurrection in case they came across any of the adventurers bodies. Sharwyn may have had been returned to life by the adventurer, joining them on another larger-than-live adventure to the bottom the the mega-dungeon and across the planes.