Sharanralee Crownstar was a human fighter After escaping her murderous relatives in Amn, her life began anew as an adventurer with Those Who Harp, venturing far and wide until she finally settled in Everlund alongside her husband, Eaerlraun Shadowlyn.
Sharanralee was a remarkably tall woman of , her form slender despite years of fighting experience. Her large, dark eyes matched the deep brown of her hair, which, when it was not done up, was said to easily fall somewhere around the back of her knees.
Despite her illustrious reputation among the Harpers, Sharanlee always carried herself with a measured level of poise. She was cheerful yet quiet, her tone kind regardless of whom she spoke to. Friendliness came naturally to her, as did her capacity to make anyone she talked to feel important, a comforting tendency that made most novice Harpers look up to her. 
Notably, Sharanralee possessed a limitless and flawless memory. She remembered everything, from conversations she briefly overheard to the faces of those she met, and even the details of small objects, such as the blade of a key she merely glanced at. This also made her an excellent guide, capable of recalling the particulars of routes and settlements far away, and she often enjoyed comparing her maps to her memory, further correcting them.   
.
After her departure from Amn, Sharanralee never tried to take any sort of vengeance on her family. Rather, she pursued her work as a Harper with a passion and, eventually, her reputation among them was on par with that of even Elminster, Mintiper Moonsilver, or Storm Silverhand. Within the organization, Sharanralee grew particularly close to one of Storms sisters, Alustriel, who was another senior Harper. She frequently served as one of Alustriels trusted agents and, even beyond their work, the two grew to confide in each other as good friends. 
At some point, Sharanralee met and fell in love with the half-elf Eaerlraun Shadowlyn. He, too, was an experienced Harper, and their marriage was a strong and content one, with the couple both owning much land in Everlund. On the citys Westing Lane, they lived together in Slumberstone Tower. 
One of Sharanralees most favored possessions was a small magic item that allowed her to freely change appearances. This not only benefited her work as a Harper but also her life in general, in situations wherein she might prefer to blend in rather than be recognized or, worse, pursued.    
During her lunch hours, Sharanralee would sometimes meet with Alustriel in Everlunds quiet gardens. 
Sharanralee Crownstar, named after her late grandmother, was born the sole inheritor to her fathers fortune in Amns capital of Athkatla. He, Taerazaun Crownstar, was the head of the Crownstar family and their mercantile fortune, whereas Sharanralees mother, Miralee, was a beautiful woman of dark skin who came from Mintarn. 
Unfortunately, during a voyage outside the country, both Taerazaun and Miralee were killed by bandits who raided their caravan. The young Sharanralee, having been left in their mansion back in Athkatla, was supposedly safe and tended to by their relatives and servants. It became readily apparent, however, that her being orphaned gave these same caretakers a unique opportunity, one to steal the Crownstar familys riches by discrediting Sharanralee. This did not deter the girl from living her life as she knew it. Every time they forced her out of the mansion, she would return, climbing back in through the upper floors windows and pretending it had never happened. This pushed the would-be thieves to resort to the extreme assassination. 
This, too, Sharanralee managed to avoid–for a while. One of her uncles began to consider another plan, wherein a stableman would spirit her away to the mountains. The agreement was that this man would be allowed to have his twisted way with her, so long as he slew her afterwards and returned bearing her heart and eyes to confirm her death. Little did they know that Sharanralee herself, hiding nearby, heard everything. 
It was this that spurred her to leave her home behind, until she, eventually, found herself under the care of the Harpers. They taught her their ways and allowed her to explore the wilderness of Toril, often accompanied by those of like interests, such as other explorers or even rangers. 
As of the mid-to-late 14 century DR, she found herself in the North. There, the surging numbers of orcs and other, greater foes kept her and Eaerlraun well-occupied as they worked out of Everlund.