Shichi No Ken was a holy warrior of Amaterasu and a member of the Brotherhood of the Seven Roses in Kara-Tur in the mid–14 century DR.It should be noted that while Shichi is a monk of the Brotherhood, she does not have the Monk class, only the Paladin class.
Shichi No Ken was born to a noble family with wealth, power, and honor, yet her parents grasped for ever greater status. Thus, they groomed their daughter to be the ideal noble lady and introduced her to Hai Chi, the nephew of Emperor Po and the then favorite to become his heir. As planned, the two fell in love, his parents made a public announcement of their betrothal, and seven months and seven days afterward they were wed in a ritual held in the palace.
Afterward, the newlyweds moved to a large villa owned by Shichis parents. They were granted a stipend of 30% of the taxes of the small village or town around it, but it remained her parents property. There, following two years of marriage, Shichi gave birth to a daughter. But when the midwife informed him, Hai Chi was shocked that his firstborn child was not a son to bear his birthright and blamed Shichi for this. He bashed her and murdered the newborn.
While the townspeople would always insist they knew nothing of this, rumors and stories spread swiftly. When Shichis father learned of it, he raced to his daughter and a few days later found her still holding the long-deceased baby. He rescued her from Hai Chis clutches and took her to the Seven Roses Monastery in Pe Nok, where she could recover and be hidden from Hai Chis familys spies. While women were rarely permitted in a monastery, his money more than made up for it.
Over time, the monks healed Shichis injuries and helped her recover from her trauma. And they taught her strength. Seeking vengeance against Hai Chi and the skills to achieve it, Shichi became a monk and trained under the Master of the East Wind, learning the martial arts, mastering her fear and anger, and acquiring the mental discipline needed. After almost a decade, she was ready.
But, in the end, it was Hai Chi who came for her. After his spies located Shichi, he led thirty of his liegemen in an assault on the monastery, seeking to murder Shichi and the monks whod given her sanctuary. But while the junior monks were swiftly defeated by his warriors, the masters handily overcame them, though they left Hai Chi himself untouched, granting Shichi the right to face her abuser. Confronting him and his rage, Shichi was nearly overwhelmed by fear, and Hai Chi inflicted several cruel blows against her. But then she found her strength and defended herself, and with all her martial training battled and at last slew him.
In short order, the Emperors soldiers arrived to investigate, but the monks delayed them—requiring the soldiers to seek the permission of the Grand Master of Flowers to enter the monastery—making time to collect Shichis possessions and for her to escape. It was not necessary theyd come not for Shichi but for Hai Chi, whose crimes and tyranny had come to the attention of his father and his uncle the emperor, and they were compelled to bring him to justice. They were even grateful Shichis slaying of him in battle saved them the need for a shameful trial and public execution. However, over twenty of Hai Chis former followers still lived and hunted for her.
Though Shichi was permitted to stay at the Seven Roses Monastery, she declined, asking instead to become a "walking initiate". The Grand Master of Flowers granted this and even gifted her with enchanted weapons. Armed thus, she wandered the land as a champion of good.
Shichi No Ken was a holy warrior of Amaterasu, in deed, thought, and heart. She was a paladin in all but name, but this was unknown in Kara-Tur, even to Shichi herself. As a monk of the Seven Roses, Shichi was bound to maintain peace and tranquility. However, Shichi saw naïveté as a weakness and wouldnt let herself grow aloof and detached from the world, but instead faced it, to understand her foes in order to vanquish them.
As a daughter of a noble family, Shichi had felt she was stuck in the shadow of her parents and ancestors. She worried she would never be more than just their daughter, that she would only be known for the achievements of her family and not her own. This made her frustrated and feeling her efforts were futile. But over a long time and lot of struggle, she overcame her anxieties.
Shichi had all the powers of a paladin, and the status with her deity, as well as the codes of conduct.
She was a capable warrior, trained in the katana and the daikyu (bow), and in unarmed martial arts techniques, knowing choke holds, eagle claw strikes, and flying kicks, as well as deflecting missiles, catching weapons, and ironskin. She favored a mix of these weapons and techniques in battle. However, she wore no armor, believing it obviated the need to defend herself effectively.
She was proficient in horsemanship, as well as calligraphy, etiquette, music, painting, and poetry.
Shichis katana had many holy powers