Shiris Blamira was a Netherese arcanistIn Netheril Empire of Magic, Blamira is described as a priest. However, in the later Trial by Ordeal short story she is described as an arcanist. and later shadow double of herself who performed research at the Shadow Consortium of Eileanar before its destruction in .As a spell effect maintained by the Shadow Weave, the shadow double Blamiras existence would not necessarily be interrupted by the Weaves failure during Karsuss Folly. However, the associated dangers of Netherils destruction may well have destroyed the shadow double Blamira anyway.
Blamira had a narrow face, long red hair, and pale green eyes. She often wore an expression of haughty superiority and pride, and like most arcanists used extensive magical enhancements to preserve her youth despite her advanced age.
Blamira worked at the Shadow Consortium for some time as they performed research on the planes and other esoteric subjects.
In the course of his investigations, Andoris confirmed Blamiras guilt via the unorthodox testimony of Ptacks captive earth elemental, which had witnessed the crime, and confirmed that both Blamiras believed themselves innocent. Pursuing a lead on her work at the Shadow Consortium, he determined that the shadow doubles permanence was due to it being a quasimagical spell effect that utilized the magical energy of a hitherto-unknown shadow mythallar that had been developed in secret at the Consortium. In an attempt to find the original, Andoris attempted a trial by ordeal which had both Blamiras teleported away from the enclave, intended to destroy the quasimagical shadow double by dint of separation from its power source, and allow the other to be legally executed without confusion. To his dismay, both subjects were unaffected by the test.
Following a brief stress-induced mental breakdown, Andoris realized that a shadow mythallar could be far smaller than the typically massive mythallars he was familiar with. Such a small construct could be hidden inside of the shadow double and render it immune to most forms of magical interruption and influence thanks to the direct connection to the Shadow Weave.
Following this revelation, he determined that the original Blamira had never had control over the shadow double and likely created it after the crime purely as an alibi, rendering it utterly innocent of the deeds committed. The Lord High Justice then officially proclaimed that the (as yet unidentified) shadow double was innocent of wrongdoing, and was entitled to all the rights and privileges held by a person in Netheril. In order to determine the guilty party and also deliver the sentence, he declared a second trial by ordeal that had them both come into contact with another of the Shadow Consortiums shadow mythallars, resulting in the destruction of the original, guilty Blamira, and no effect upon the innocent shadow double. As a result of this final judgement, the two Blamiras were finally reduced to one.
Following the disappearance of the institutes founder Shadow in , Blamira continued to perform experimental research into the planes at the Shadow Consortium at the direction of Alkindus. Focused on the unlikely possibilities of semiplanes and antiplanes, Blamira worked alongside Janin, Vanderanus, and Pringle until Karsuss Folly.