Sholsarrath the Lame was a dim-witted kobold warlock of the Skulking Dragon clan who traded his own head to a demon, actually just an imp, Yargulbuzul some years before the late 14 century DR.
After entering his pact, Sholsarrath was missing a finger and a foot.
Sholsarrath was a kobold shaman who, in order to avoid a grisly death, entered a warlocks pact with the demon Yargulbuzul, who offered him power and, subsequently, the leadership of the clan. The price was the kobolds own finger and a foot. After the said fiasco, Sholsarrath the Lame committed to taking care of his tribe and keeping it happy and well-fed – for a kobold, that meant raiding local farms. With help from the tribes old chief, Sholsarrath trained the kobold warriors to be a fearsome force. Soon after the plunder began, the Skulking Dragons became hated and feared among the locals. The clans infamy rose so much that a band of traveling adventurers decided to end the kobold menace.
The five adventurers rode out of the village of Houndstown and quickly were able to track the Skulking Dragon clan. The kobolds might have been a nightmare for the local peasantry, but they were naught but pests for weathered adventures, who slaughtered the clans best warriors en masse. Desperate once again to escape sure doom, Sholsarrath the Lame evoked Yargulbuzuls name once again, demanding salvation and a way to escape. Yargulbuzul claimed that it would be a tough feat to accomplish and demanded one last payment from the kobold, a payment greater than anything he paid before. The dim-witted warlock agreed frantically to Yargulbuzuls demands – the kobolds head. When the five adventurers reached the shamans lair, they witnessed a happy imp decapitating Sholsarrath and carrying his soul to the Abyss.
Sometime later, Sholsarrath the Lames head was fashioned into an enchanted mask fashioned to be worn by warlocks. The Head of the Lame Kobold found its way into the hands of Dayne Lynneth, a merchant from Tyrs Eye plaza in the Blacklake District of Neverwinter in the .