1
| class5e        = Knight
| refs5e         = 
Sildar Hallwinter was a retired knight from Neverwinter and later a member of the Town Council of Phandalin in the late 15 century DR.
Sildar was nearly 50 years old in 1491 DR.
Despite his restrained and almost cold mannerisms and speech, Sildar was kind-hearted and sincere, although lacking in confidence and charisma. He wished to see the town of Phandalin prosper and to ensure that innocents&mdasheven fools&mdashnever came to any harm.
As a citizen and later town councilor of Phandalin, Sildars role was to ensure the safety of the towns mining and timber operations, and to see to it that nothing interfered with them. In this way, he strove to help elevate Phandalin to a position of relevance in the regions trade and commerce.
He was a loyal member of the Lords Alliance, and had close ties to both Neverwinter and Waterdeep. He was a friend of Gundren Rockseeker.
He was a member of the knightly Hallwinter family and had an adopted daughter named Alana.
As a member of the town council of Phandalin, he was well respected and trusted by the townsfolk. He seemed to get along well with fellow councilors Trilena Stonehill and Halia Thornton, but not so much with councilor Harbin Wester, whom he saw as fundamentally corrupt.
Sildar originally hailed from Neverwinter. In his younger days, Sildar was a soldier and earned himself a place of honor among the Griffon Cavalry of Waterdeep.
As of the , Sildar was working as a sellsword.
Following his rescue from the Cragmaws by adventurers, Sildars confidence in himself was badly shaken, and he retired from his martial lifestyle in Phandalin. Despite his lack of confidence, he continued to stay in shape and quickly became respected within the community as an honorable and brave man. When Phandalin formed a town council not long after his retirement had started, he was elected as one of the three councilors.
Early in his tenure as councilor, his adopted daughter Alana disappeared into the Crooked Forest. Unable to go after her for fear that his disappearance would cause anxiety in Phandalin, he hired adventurers to find her and to return with her discretely.
In the , Sildar campaigned against Harbin Wester in Phandalins first mayoral election. He was generally lacking in the swagger and oratory ability expected of an aspiring politician, but was motivated to push against Harbins corrupt and self-serving agenda.