"Silent Antlers" was the name Elminster Aumar gave a mysterious entity he struck down in the  at a hill near Tressets Ringyl.The name is used in capitals in the narration, but it is only from Elminsters perspective. The name is not ever spoken to refer to this mysterious entity.
The bizarre creature was stag-headed and bare, with wickedly long fingers. Its eyes were red.
While Silent Antlers didnt say much, it gave Elminster the impression it was bent on killing him.
The creatures attack was heralded by the rush of a throng of shadow-like beasts of unknown nature it seemed to reabsorb them later, strongly implying that they were created from it in some manner.
It cast a magical green ball lightning, which could be rebounded. It could also take the lightning itself harmlessly, seemingly being resistant to spells or to the lightning itself. It had some ability to respond to spells that created daggers, dispelling or otherwise cancelling them. Finally, it had a spell that allowed it to release blue flames from its hands, which was also a form of counterspell capable of breaching other spell-shields quite effectively. It seemed to have no defense of its own towards that attack.
On a spring day of the , the Chosen of Mystra Elminster Aumar spent a night on a hill near Tressets Ringyl, the ruin of a fortified town. He was attacked through the night by a number of shadowy beasts, which were followed by an unknown, speechless creature that Elminster dubbed "Silent Antlers". After a short spell-duel, he managed to slay it.
Upon death, the creatures body crumbled to ash whether this was because of the rebounded flame spell it cast or some inherent property of its body was unclear. Its passing also caused a change in the Ringyl, a nearby castle, making a catafalque and casket burst out from behind a wall decorated with a carving of a pair of lips, which held 12 or 14 irregular stars around it. A rod that formed part of the arrangement then crumbled into dust, but was reclaimed and restored by the hand of an unseen woman,