Slinker was a young and  affable human thief from Freedale who made himself name adventuring with Lordan the Pure, Delvar Ironfist, Morganth the Mysterious, Beldar the Brave, and Silverleaf Halfmoon in the mid-14 century DR.
Slinker was a young tall, lanky human with black curly hair and a lean physique.
Apart from his charismatic personality, Slinker was boastful and clumsy to a fault. He took bets and tried to achieve almost impossible tasks, like trying to jump through a window opening while blindfolded, only to completely miss it and tumble on the floor.
Like other individuals of the same vocation, Slinker was proficient in pickpocketing, lock-picking, detecting and disarming traps, climbing, hiding in shadows, and silent step.
Slinker usually wore his leather armor and a backpack, filled to the brim with thievery tools, sacks, torches. He was armed with a short sword, and a bow.
Slinker was a charmer, and everyone in the hamlet of Freedale knew him well. The young thiefs best friend and trusted informant in town was One-Arm McGinty of the Red Dragon Tavern. Slinker could often be found in the tavern gossiping with the friendly barkeep.
thumb|Slinker in trouble, menaced by a 306x306px
Sometime in the mid 14- century DR, Slinker resided in the hamlet of Freedale, just to the southwest from the village of Shadowdale. Everyone knew Slinker in the building. Eventually, he joined a few other individuals to form an adventuring party to travel to the little-known nearby Tomb of Damara on a rescue mission. The seer of Freedale, Netheril asked the heroes to find his missing apprentice. The apprentice was the elf named Taran Goldenstar who was searching for a singing orb (orb of dragonkind) in the old ruins.
In ruins, the adventurers came across hobgoblins who were after the same treasure and captured the elf, torturing him for information. Slinker and his party managed to free the apprentice wizard, defeat the ogre Bonegnasher who made the ruins his home, and recovered the artifact for the seer.
As Slinkers group grew a bit more confident, they decided to embark on a daring adventure to investigate the haunted mansion, the Harrow Hill, once the home of a powerful wizard Gunter. The unlucky heroes became trapped inside the mansion and hunted by the ghost of its former mad owner. The heroes outwitted the undead wizard and destroyed him with silvered weapons.
Confident in their skills, Slinker and his friends descended into the cave system under Mount Dread to the south from the village. They, of course, survived another adventure and were ready for more.