Soggy Wren () was the pseudonym used by a notoriously alcoholic agent of the Harpers based out of Port Nyanzaru in Chult in the late 15 century DR. He was sometimes referred to simply as Soggy or simply as Wren.
Wren had light skin and dark brown eyes. He was fat and of average height, and he dressed in dirty Chultan-style clothing. While Wren originally had potent sorcererous abilities, he had turned to ignoring them in favor of drinking.
He had an affable nature and was overly friendly, so much so that he could almost seem rude. He couldnt stand evil people or "party poopers". While he was generally comfortable just being himself and letting others think of him as they wished, he was prone to anger when he felt others had no faith in him. He had little interest in treasure and always strove to help his fellow Harpers and to do the morally right thing.
Wren was adept at acting under pressure and at resisting magical compulsion. He was also highly perceptive, able to draw connections between seemingly unrelated events and able to read peoples body language. He was intimately familiar with the city of Port Nyanzaru and its darkest secrets, and was surprisingly knowledgeable of Chultan drugs, such as Wanderlost.
Despite all of his positive qualities, Soggy Wren was an extreme alcoholic, and this could make him unreliable
He was the ranking member of the Harpers in Port Nyanzaru in the late 15 century DR, and so was the primary contact for other Harper agents. One of his duties, given the curse of undead in Chult at the time, was to collect the ashes of fallen Harpers.
Wren aspired to earn a transfer to somewhere with a more temperate climate,
Wren was on good terms with some native tribes of Chult, and could arrange ship passage for his allies, such as aboard the Nathir with Captain Vaelara. Other Harpers active in Port Nyanzaru included Liandra Boldblade and Sirge Wintermelt, and the merchant prince Wakanga Otamu was sympathic to the Harpers, even offering his villa as a safehouse. Later in life, Wren worked with fellow Harpers Zehira Deryan and Remallia Haventree.
He occasionally cooperated with representatives from other factions within Port Nyanzaru, such as when several of them elected to hire the mercenary Pozzanna Lordeaux to secure a stronghold within the Chultan jungle, when they rallied behind Hawkdriver Mazugulak to drive back an undead attack on the city, or when they came together under Alastar Bol to send agents to investigate undead forces stemming from the ruined city of Matolo. Professionally, he had working relationships with Nerissa from Mezro and the Triceratops Society through Diamssar. However, Diamssar was secretly a yuan-ti spy and had been deceiving Wren.
Soggy Wren was a longtime Harper and had at one time been an adventurer However, all that ended when he started drinking to cope with the losses and uncertainties of the adventuring lifestyle. This drinking led him to neglect his magical abilities and soon drove away many Harper acquaintances and friends, who felt that they could no longer trust him. He was often assigned to manage Harper safehouses in terrible or out-of-the way places, and was eventually transferred to Port Nyanzaru in Chult, where he disliked the oppressive heat. 
As of the events of the death curse around , Wren was a middle-aged man He had been banned from many other drinking establishments in Port Nyanzaru, although he was also known to frequent the Thundering Lizard. 
During this time, he juggled several missions as part of his calling to protect the people and thwart the death curse, including searching for the pieces of the Dreamers Amulet that had recently appeared in the city (to investigate a potential connection between it and the death curse), and finding and spying on the "Ramshackle King".
When the Red Wizards of Thay began collecting fragments of the Soulmonger after the end of the death curse, Wren hatched a plot to capture and turn one of their operatives in order to learn their plans.
Several years later when his hair had gone white, Wren finally confronted the fact that his drinking had created more problems than it had solved. He sobered up, regained his spellcasting abilities, and achieved peace with himself. 
By this time, he had finally managed to get transferred out of the oppressive head of Chult and into the equally distasteful freezing cold of Icewind Dale. While there, he was given terrible assignments, such as posing as a slave in order to provide support to other Harpers. When his fellow Harpers began to experience strange psychic effects caused by slivers of a key that could be used to release the Shadow in the Ice, a herald of Father Llymic trapped within the city, Wren seized a sliver and fled with it to protect them. He was subsequently captured by creatures of the Far Realm and tortured for information about the location of other slivers.
At some point, he devised a crossbow bolt designed to force a rolled-up portable hole into a compact bag of holding upon impact, causing an explosion that would drag nearby creatures and objects into the Astral Plane. He dubbed this his "weapon of mass devastation", or "WMD" for short. He was immensely proud of this invention, but refused to share the blueprints for its construction out of fear of causing an arms race.