Soraevora Aeravand was an aged sun elf divine soul of Angharradh, the Queen of Arvandor, from the elven island of Evermeet, active in the late 14 century DR.
In the late 14 century DR, Soraevora appeared aged. As a sun elf, it meant that she had lived many hundreds of years. She had a thin face, graying hair and golden gray eyes, and bronze skin. She carried herself with dignity that advertised the womans wisdom, while her eyes betrayed her ferocity and dedication to her faith and quest.
Soraevora wielded a unique enchanted spear, sacred to her goddess. Soraevoras chainmail was one of the finest creations of Evermeets smiths.
450x450px
In the , Soraevora Aeravand had been alive for many centuries. She received visions from the Queen of Arvandor, her deity, that foretold a dire future for the elves and other races of Faerûn. A dire threat of an interloper deity – Zehir, and his Forktongue Cultists loomed over the nation of Samarach, Chult, and even the Sword Coast. She was shown the faces of heroes who would stand against the yuan-ti and their deity. Soraevora followed the divine guidance to the Crossroad Keep in Northwest Faerûn.
At the keep, she met Khelgar Ironfist, who was put in charge by Lord Neverember while the illustrious Knight-Commander was missing. Initially, Khelgar Ironfist attempted to send the elf woman away, yet she stayed adamant. When Graycloaks attempted to escort her out, she knocked them out with the spears haft. Khelgar had no choice but to let her wait for the adventurers at the keep. Soraevora did not expect to receive a respectful welcome from a dwarf, but Khelgar once traveled with a pious elf and understood the strange womans drive. Soon after, she met the subjects of her dreams – a group of adventurers who allied with the merchant prince SaSani of the Mercantile House.
Soraevora pledged her service and her spear to the adventurers in order to stop the dark god from swallowing the Sword Cost. After the heroes traveled to the Temple of World Serpent from where the Forktongue Cultists operated, and defeated Zehirs avatar, Soraevora Aeravand returned to the Crossroad Keep to walk its halls dance more. Now, her journey was complete and shortly after, the favored soul departed the Sword Coast to return to Evermeet.