The Srinshee (born Oluevaera Estelda) was one of the most famous baelnorn of all time. She aided three Cormanthyran Coronals Miirphys, Tannivh, and Eltargrim. She also helped raise the Mythal over the elven city of Myth Drannor in 261 DR.
thumb|Srinshee, before her rejuvenation.|380x380px
The Srinshee played a vital role in the creation of the Mythal of Myth Drannor in 261 DR amid the ruins of the shattered court of the Coronal after she ended the madness of the Starym-led attack (which was an attempt to hinder the plans of Coronal Eltargrim). She led Mythanthor, Coronal Eltargrim Irithyl, Lady Ahrendue Echorn, Lord Earynspieir Ongluth, and another ten mages to create the magical ward.
The year 661 DR marked the death of Coronal Eltargrim. He left only one heir behind, Aravae Irithyl, who also passed in 664 DR, leaving a ruling vacuum behind her. In 666 DR there was an unrest amongst the Noble Houses to determine the next Coronal of Myth Drannor and Cormanthyr. After forty elves and the Rule Tower itself were destroyed, the Srinshee stepped in, easily swinging the elfblade free of its perch.
As it was brandished before her, the golden light of the blade crystallized around her and a quartet of High Mages in a massive diamond-shaped energy field that engulfed and restored the Rule Tower. The Srinsshee said her last teachings to all the inhabitants of Cormannthyr about brothership and hope
Finally, with a whirl of magic, the golden diamond magical field, the Srinshee herself, the four High Mages, and the Rulers Blade, ArCorKerym disappeared.
The Srinshee retreated to a hidden resting place whose location was known only by Alvaerele Tasundrym and was not seen again until 1377 DR. It was then that she returned to a rejuvenated Myth Drannor and offered Ilsevele Miritar the Rulers Blade. 711 years after she disappeared, waiting for a coronal to rule her realm, a worthy one appears.
In 1487 DR, she fought to defend Myth Drannor from the besieging forces of Thultanthar and sacrificed herself to stop Larloch from becoming the new deity of magic.