Count Strahd von Zarovich was a vampire and the dark lord of the valley of Barovia, one of the Domains of Dread located in a remote corner of the Shadowfell.
In his youth, Strahd was a prince and a conqueror. After settling down in the recently conquered valley of Barovia, beginning to feel the weight of middle age, sometime before the 11 century DR Strahd forged a pact with the Dark Powers of the Shadowfell in order to achieve immortality. The pact involved the murder of his brother Sergei von Zarovich so that Strahd could take Sergeis wife Tatyana, with whom he had fallen madly in love. The pact sealed, Strahd chased Tatyana through his gardens in an effort to force her to love him, eventually driving her to fling herself off a cliff to avoid him and causing her death. Strahd tried to end it all but remained alive, undead and a vampire. The entire valley was swept into the Shadowfell and turned into a prison from which he could never escape.
In the , Jander encountered Anna, a fragment of Tatyanas soul who had been trapped in an asylum in Waterdeep for almost a century. After years looking after her and failing to turn her into a vampire to prevent her death, in the , Jander was transported to Barovia by the Dark Powers, vowing to take revenge upon whoever had been responsible for her fate. There, he befriended Strahd, then still an inexperienced vampire, and, over more than 25 years, taught him much of his vampiric skills, including the ability to communicate with and control animals. After discovering the true nature of Strahd, Jander attempted to destroy him, but ended up only severely injuring him. He threw himself into the sun to end his misery afterwards, but, instead of dying, was transported to the adjacent domain of Forlorn.
During the mid-to-late 14 century DR, a pair of Hellriders of Elturel were transported to Barovia by the Mists while hunting down an individual who attempted to assassinate the citys ruler, Lord Dhelt. Strahd, curious about the newcomers and interested in using them to potentially escape from Barovia, invited the Hellriders to dinner at Castle Ravenloft and charged them with searching a monster-filled cavern where a portal out of the Domain was believed to be hidden. Strahd disguised himself as "Vladislav," a half-elven warrior, and assisted the adventurers in searching the caverns. When it became apparent that the portal was fraudulent, Strahd quickly abandoned the adventurers. The Count later confronted the Hellriders and their allies when they invaded Castle Ravenloft to obtain Lord Dhelts holy symbol of Helm, which was in Strahds possession all along.  Strahd was defeated in the ensuing battle, albeit only temporarily.
In the late 15 century DR, Strahd confronted Minsc, Boo, Delina, Krydle, Shandie, and Nerys in an attempt to recover a locket that once belonged to Tatyana, the love of Strahds life. The locket had the power to free the companions from Barovia, narrowly escaping the vampires wrath.
Also around that time, Strahd encountered Volothamp Geddarm within his domain at the gates of Vallaki, appearing before the traveler in his mist form. He invited Volothamp for dinner at Castle Ravenloft later that evening, wishing to discuss where he came from and the strange magic he could sense on him. Strahd then flew away back to the castle in his bat form, before the panicked Volothamp called on Elminster to return him back to Toril.
Strahds known possessions included a +4 bastard sword, a +2 mighty composite bow, an amulet of proof against detection and location, bracers of armor +6, a cloak of resistance +3, a crystal ball, gloves of dexterity +2, a ring of minor elemental resistance (fire), a ring of protection +4, and a rod of absorption.
During his many centuries of imprisonment in Barovia, Strahd became acquainted with several visitors from Toril, including the sun elf vampire Jander Sunstar, with whom Strahd formed a long-lasting relationship, and Volothamp Geddarm, who briefly visited Barovia at the behest of Elminster Aumar.