Stumpet Rakingclaw was a dwarf cleric of Clangeddin Silverbeard from Mithral Hall in the 14 century DR.
She was a fiery dwarf with a short red beard.
Stumpet was an excellent brewer of dwarven mead holy water and Bruenor awarded her a nine out of ten for her brewing skills.
She was born in Citadel Adbar.
In the , Stumpet auditioned before Bruenor Battlehammer to replace the fallen Cobble as Holy Cleric of the Hall. During the Time of Troubles, Harkle Harpell became separated from his eyes and Stumpet was given the duty of guarding his eyes until he could reach Mithral Hall. During the Battle of Keepers Dale, Stumpet rallied five hundred dwarves to open the door of Mithral Hall and charge the drow horde lead by Berginyon Baenre.
In 1364 DR, Stumpet accompanied Bruenor back to Icewind Dale, during which she climbed Kelvins Cairn and unknowingly came into possession of Crenshinibon. While the artifact was unable to direct influence her without drawing her suspicions, it was able to direct her into the waiting clutches of the balor Errtu, who had longer desired the Crystal Shard. Stumpets life was spare at Crenshinibons urging, reasoning that she was likely of Clan Battlehammer, of whom Drizzt DoUrden was associated with, so the balor imprisoned her soul in an entrapping gemstone to control her body. Stumpet was then sent back to the mines and used to lure the Companions of the Hall to the rebuilt Cryshal-Tirith, only taking period breaks throughout the journey. When Errtu later decided to take to the field, he left his gemstone behind for Crenshinibon to use and thus avoid restoring Stumpets soul to her body. Stumpet was nearly used to drown Catti-brie before Crenshinibon to be distracted by the intrusion of Regis. After the halfling contained the shard, he retrieved Stumpets soul prison in his escape from the collapsing tower and helped restore the cleric to her body.Passage to Dawn
She treated King Bruenor Battlehammer when he was in a coma subsequent to battle of Shallows in the .