Stuuzant was a female ogre who terrorized the countryside around Phandalin in the late 15 century DR.
Smarter than the average ogre, Stuuzant was careful and tactical both in and out of combat. She spoke Common quite well, and was more than willing to bargain or negotiate her way out of a fight. She was also happy to work for pay, whether as an attacker, a bodyguard, or a sentry.
During her time near Phandalin, Stuuzant lived by stealing local livestock. She was very careful to keep her distance from people and to avoid getting into any troublesome fights she took only what she needed, struck only when no one could see her, and kept on the move&mdashrarely staying in one place for more than a day&mdashall while covering her tracks. She was so successful at keeping a low profile that after a full month of raiding farms in the area, no one had actually seen her the only clue that an ogre was responsible for the animal disappearances was the occasional giant-sized footprint discovered by some farmers and herders.
While Stuuzant was once employed by the Six in their covert feud with Acquisitions Incorporated, she had no knowledge of or loyalty to that organization.
She had befriended and travelled alongside two dire wolves.
In the , Stuuzant was paid 50 gold pieces by Splugoth the Returned of the Six to help destroy the Fellowship of the Golden Mongoose, an adventuring company affiliated with Acquisitions Incorporated. Splugoth concealed his face, his name, and his loyalties during their meeting, and so Stuuzant ultimately had no idea for whom she was working.
Stuuzant and a number of other operatives then travelled to Phandalin and attacked the Fellowship of the Golden Mongoose at their headquarters located in Tresendar Manor, with Stuuzant smashing straight through the walls. After the attack was over, the group disbanded and she wandered off, but she decided to stay near Phandalin to enjoy the towns delicious livestock.
After a month of pillaging the region, she had befriended two dire wolves but had yet to find a proper den for herself, and so wandered around the nearby countryside taking care not to get caught. By this time, the people and leadership of Phandalin were eager to be rid of the menace making off with their livestock, and were happy to offer goods and favors to any adventurers who could help.