Sujit was the imp familiar and a close friend and companion of Delfen Ondabarl circa 1372 DR.
Sujit was a creature of hellfire thus, he hated ice and loathed living with his previous master, Mogdor in the icy plains of Etabalon. His experience of being trapped in a chest left the imp with a deep dislike of such containers.
Sujit was freed from servitude to his cruel master by Delfen Ondabarl sometime before 1372 DR. The imp befriended the wizard, and they later formed a pact of a wizard and a familiar. Freeing Sujit earned Delfen a bitter enemy in Mogdor, a cruel and strange man with horns and devilish wings who cheerfully declared himself Ondabarls nemesis. Over the years, Mogdor tried several times to retrieve his stolen property, and in 1372 DR, he came very close to snatching Sujit, magically bounding him and stepping through a gate to Etabalon.
The winged evil wizard hired a bounty hunter from Daggerford, Erik the Fin for the deed. Fin placed a trapped chest in an alley outside the Sorcellers Encapsulate where Delfen Ondabarl often spent his days among his fellow masters of the arcane. The open cast played an alluring ditty that attracted the curious imp, trapping the familiar inside. However, Erik the Fin dropped the chest into Delimbiyr River as he was trying to board a boat back to Mogdors hideout. Unable to travel searching for the chest, Erik found a mercenary who was willing to - the individual who later would be known as the Hero of Daggerford.
Eventually, the Hero found the said chest. It ended up being washed ashore in one of the coastal caves in the Western Farmlands. Amused by the chests talkativeness and pleads to be returned to Yellowknife, it was taken back to Sujits heartbroken friend. After being reunited, Delfen came out with a plan of swift revenge. The wizard placed a trapped and deadly demilich Extallimix inside the chest. The Hero of Daggerford was tasked with returning the chest to Erik the Fin to be passed along to Mogdor. This was believed to be the end of Sujits old master, who was killed by the angry undead.