Sumulael, who was formerly Ezarhaddon bin Kior, was a powerful necromancer inhabiting the ruined city of Ysawis in the Grey Jungle of east Zakhara in 1367 DR.
Once considered to be a handsome man, Sumulaels many indulgences left him obese and ravaged his body in other ways. He sweated constantly and his pale flesh hung from his heavy frame. He stood a hair under  tall. He always wore extremely expensive pieces of jewelry.
Originally from Hilm in the Pantheist League, Ezarhaddon studied at the university in the City of Kindness. It was here that he met an ajami wizard named Al-Nasr, or "the vulture", who taught him the dark art of necromancy. When authorities discovered his knowledge of the forbidden magic they drove him and his wife, Zaribel, from the city. The fleeing couple eventually settled in the Cities of the Ancients region where they could flaunt their dark skills. It was here that Ezarhaddon adopted the name Sumulael, which meant "Harvester of Death" in Kadari.
Once settled in the ruined city of Ysawis in the Grey Jungle, Sumulael used his powers to raise an army of undead servants to satisfy his needs.
Sumulael usually had the following spells memorized chill touch, detect undead, magic missile, shocking grasp, darkness, 15 radius, levitate, spectral hand, stinking cloud, dispel magic, fly, lightning bolt, slow, vampiric touch, bestow curse, contagion, enervation, Evards black tentacles, minor globe of invulnerability, wall of ice, animate dead, magic jar, summon shadow, Bloodstones spectral steed, claws of the umber hulk, death spell, flame of justice, finger of death, reverse gravity, Abi-Dalzims horrid wilting, trap the soul, spirit armor.
He carried many magic items including a robe of eyes, wand of lightning, ring of protection, pipes of pain, periapt of proof against poison, oil of impact, a scroll of protection from possession, a potion of fire resistance, a potion of healing, and a potion of speed. Sumulael also wielded fifteen throwing darts coated with dreambliss.
Sumulael spent most of his time in isolation with his pet homunculus Buri.