Tabarast was a sage of the 8 century DR. He was sometimes an actor, too.
Tabarast and Beldrune sometimes got into sesquipedalian talk, using long or old words. The two were known to flirt with each other.
Tabarast was openly skeptical of the gods. He could sure drink a lot.
In , they had spent years at Moonshorn Tower, studying old magic.
In , they were selling entry to their magic classes for a gold piece per attendant.
Tabarast was balding, with no hair on his head left, and wore round spectacles. He was bearded.
He wasnt a great rider.
One of Tabarasts spells, which had a material component, created a spear of force that appeared as nothingness that was capable of tearing a man apart. The force of it was enough to nail them to a surface afterwards.
At Moonshorn Tower, Tabarast carried a jar of Halavan nuts, which he treasured.
Tabarast and Beldrune had long worked together Tabarast was the elder of the two.
Tabarast and Beldrune had been to Ripplestones at some point prior to .
In the , Beldrune and Tabarast had been in Moonshorn Tower for some time, studying the texts there. They had agreed not to broach the subject of Chosen of Mystra, but did so anyway, speculating idly as to the signs claimed by the priests of Mystras Mantle in Haramettur that Elminster Aumar was once again walking the lands. They had been at this task for years.
By the spring of that year, Tabarast and Beldrune noticed a stranger walking into Moonshorn unknown to them this was the Elminster theyd heard about. Though they turned away from the stranger until he left, there were burning letters left in the documents he read they took those as a sign of Mystras direct intervention, and decided to pursue Elminster and be witnesses in his wake. They rode after him on mules. On the way, they were soon passed by Ilbryn Starym, who was also in pursuit of Elminster.
They reached the Castle of the Lady, where Elminster Aumar apprenticed under the sorceress Dasumia, at some point before the , by which point they were already observing the comings and goings of the two mages from one or more hidden positions near the castle.
By , they had abandoned their Elminster search, and had settled somewhere near Starmantle. There, one day, Tabarast came across a rejuvenating spell in an empty page of his spellbook Beldrune attested to feeling rejuvenated by it. The two of them had been teachers, for quite some time at that point, until they were commissioned by a Harper, secretly the god Azuth, to hunt after Elminster, whom he was seeking.
They made a short stop for food at the Fair Maid, a tavern in Ripplestones, a town where they nearly rode down Baerdagh, a local elderly man. Then they were joined by Caladaster Daermree, another local elderly man and former wizard, who agreed to guide them to nearby ruins where he was almost certain Elminster would turn up.
Azuth protected the three wizards from the destruction that ensued. Then, upon the death of Saeraede, who was struck down by Ilbryn Starym after he had burst from hiding to attack, Azuth held back the explosion that resulted from Saeraedes death throes. Azuth then vanished together with Elminster, leaving the three mages awed and briefly bewildered. They rambled shortly, and then found among the rubble three gowns that Saeraede had stolen previously.
Afterwards, they headed to the Fair Maid, where they had some drinks, showed around the dresses, and talked about their latest adventure. Beldrune embellished heavily, claiming that it was their spells that had saved the day and that Azuth had told them so. Tabarast added that Azuth had told them theyd earned the magical robes they were showing off, though Azuth had said nothing of the sort. Sharindala, a local undead sorceress, joined them at the tavern and claimed a dress, but Tabarast refused to share. She departed with Caladaster, but said everything theyd said about Azuth was true.