tagamaling buso
Takako Shimizu was a samurai in the town of Aru in Wa in the 1770s on the Wa Calendar.
Aged in her late 20s, she was quite attractive and moved with grace and fluidity.
Takako was considered the model of a perfect female samurai. She had a keen intellect and wit, as well as a lively nature.
Takako was the niece of the daimyo of Aru Province, Benju Matsutomo, and was one of the members of his court.As Takako is Benjus niece and is described as "different from Sumihiro in almost every way", it seems intended that Sumihiro and Takako are siblings or half-siblings.
Although she lacked the time to train, Takako advanced well as a samurai and specialized in the katana. She also proficient in horsemanship, calligraphy, origami, and poetry.
Despite her training, Takako didnt own her own katana, though she did keep a knife hidden in her obi. She never donned any armor.
In high summer of , before the upcoming Ceremony of the Three Thousand Steps, Takako, Benju, various local nobility, and a group of adventurers hired by the daimyo gathered one evening on the vantage point on the hill north of Aru, beside the Shining Temple of Bishamon. The evening was ruined when the temples great brass bell broke as the hour was rung.
Around that time, Takako may have become attracted to one of the more charismatic male adventurers, if any qualified. In her best calligraphy, she would write an invitation to "view the sunset with me atop the Shining Temple" and signed it "An Ardent Admirer", and sent it via a messenger. However, this would lead to complications. If the adventurer didnt return Takakos affections, or didnt even come to the tryst, then she would grow angry and claim to others he was "trifling with her affections", hurting his reputation. But if the adventurer did, then Benju would hear that he was "shaming" his niece and order him to break it off, which would cause to Takako grow angry and make claims anyway. There was, it seemed, no winning.
In any case, Takako later had a bigger problem. Once, while hunting in the forest with Tazumi and other samurai, Takako became separated and was ambushed by a monster. She barely had time to scream and none to see it before it knocked her out. The alerted samurai rushed to her side, but the monster escaped them through the undergrowth, Tazumi glimpsed the creature crouching over Takako and mistook it for a kala or even a shikki-gaki. But with no more than a scratch and a bump, Takako confidently dismissed this incident as just another monster attack.
But, several weeks later, Takako suffered a nightmare of being helplessly swallowed by a hideous one-eyed monster. In a strange bout of sleepwalking, she also transformed into a tagamaling buso, stalked the halls of the daimyos donjon, murdered and partly ate a samurai, stashed the body behind a rain barrel, and returned to her room, where she awoke screaming with no memory of the events. Claw marks were found on her shoji door and the discovered body, incomplete tracks linked them, but this excited fresh rumors of the notorious "tiger-bird spirit" of Aru. Benju may have had his adventurers investigate and protect Takako during the night. During the day, they questioned Takako, Tazumi, and the samurai guards they learned little but mightve received cryptic clues from the so-called Seer.