Talon Everhale was a young ranger in Icewind Dale, and a member of the Emerald Enclave, that fought alongside others against the wicked Cult of the Dragon in the late 15 century DR.
As befitting someone that took on the life of a ranger, Talon greatly appreciated the beauty of the natural world, in all its forms.
She often referred to others as knuckleheads, after the famous knucklehead troud native to her homeland of Icewind Dale.
Talon was quiet special in that she had a photographic memory.
She was very finicky about the arrows she used, only preferring those that were beyond "ordinary".
Talon Everhales mother died giving birth to her. She was born with certain fiendish disfigurements. However, these deformities vanished after a mysterious person came to visit. The person left and with them went most peoples memory of Talons birth defects. Nevertheless, her father did not speak to her or anyone else since she was born.
She grew into a beautiful young woman and skilled ranger. While on a hunt, she encountered the druid Delaan and his winter wolf. The druid offered her a place within the Emerald Enclave. He also informed her that she must guard herself against a dangerous chaos within herself.
She was in fact the victim of a horrible curse that had been spawned in Ascalhorn, later known as Hellgate Keep. The curse passed from mother to child, it killed all male children, and was passed down the female line. The secret to ending this curse lay hidden in the ruins of Hellgate.
300px|Talon and her allies standing over Wyrmspeaker Varramzord.
In the 1480s DR, Talon joined up with several other adventurers, Nymmestra, Alaeros, Barrowin, and Ratshadow, an a mission to stop the Cult of the Dragon from retrieving an artifact known as the Red Dragon Mask.
While out on the isle in the Trackless Sea, Talon and her companions delved into the Flame Fault and were forced to battle, and eventually slayed Lostmauth, one of the three red dragon rulers of the barbarian isle. Unfortunately, the portal they used was destroyed and the heroes remained stuck on Tuern for a brief while, allowing the cults leader Severin Silrajin to escape with the Red Dragon Mask. 
Moving against the cult again in Neverwinter, the Zhentarim-aligned Ratshadow went behind the groups back and stashed away the White Dragon Mask sought by the cult in Waterdeep. This dastardly action led to the death of Lord Arthagast Ulbrinter, and caused his widow, Lady Remallia Haventree to launch a political and military crusade against the Cult, at their lair in the Well of Dragons. Talon and her true-hearted companions were among the heroes that helped apprehend the cults leader Silrajin and earned praise for their patron organizations.