| refs5e         = 
Tamia Holzt was a Black Gauntlet of Bane and an Overseer slaver who served the Cult of the Absolute in the late 15 century DR.
Tamia was a light-skinned human woman who wore her decorated Banite Black Gauntlet armor that included a breastplate, pauldrons decorated with a hellish face, and a large and intimidating helmet, decorated with a pair of metal tusks and a big image of Banes black hand. Uva was armed with an infernal mace that bore a +2 enchantment. She also carried Prinskis Motivator to keep her finger on the slave kill-switch.
Black Gauntlet Holzt used divine magic granted to her by Bane. She had access to a variety of spells, including aura of terror, blight, dominate person, inflict wounds, phantasmal killer, and planar ally.
Tamia enjoyed a dominant role in her sexual proclivities. She kept a detailed record of her sexual activities with the certain "BD" in a journal she titled Tamia Domina, checking off positions from Quarta Sune. Another sexual partner of Tamias was Clovia Throaks, wife of Blarson Throaks, and mother of Gasper Throaks, whom Tamia recruited into the cult. Clovia planned on leaving her husband for Tamia.
In the , the Gondian foundry of Baldurs Gate was taken over by Enver Gortash and his cultists of Bane. Gondian foundry workers were forced to work on forging the lords steel watchers. Their families and loved ones were abducted and held hostage to encourage obedience, and all of the workers were outfitted with incineration collars  controlled by Prinskis Motivators.
During the Absolute crisis, Lowa, one of the enslaved foundry workers, stood up to Black Gauntlet Tamia Holzt, stating that the watchers gyronetics required workers with steady hands and sharp eyes, not exhausted slaves with trembling muscles. Lowa demanded rest from her captors but was reminded of her son, who was held hostage underwater at the sunken Iron Throne headquarters. Faced with the threat of her own death and the death of her son, Lowa promised to finish the steel watchers by the first light of dawn.
Tamia Holzts fate following the crisis resolution remained unconfirmed but it was presumed she was killed by a group of adventurers who stood against the Absolute and tried to rescue the hostages.