Tarbash Dellkisel was a rogue gnome scavenger cousins of Robalend Lukka who aided a group of heroes against the Cult of the Dragon in 1369 DR.
Tarbash was a gnome of  height. He dressed in dark colors, to compliment his roguish profession and often tricked people into buying his potions and other knick-knacks recovered from the ruins of Myth Drannor.
Tarbash Dellkisel was an accomplished rogue and dabbled in illusion magic. His spellbook contained mostly defensive and practical spells such as detect magic, detect poison, disrupt undead, ghost sound, mage hand, change self, jump, silent image, spider climb, invisibility, rope trick, as well as gnomes spell-like abilities.
Through his many expeditions into Myth Drannor, Tarbash knew of many gate that connected the ruins with many parts of the Realms.
Tarbash carried a set of enchanted +1 studded leather, hidden underneath a dark hooded half-cloak. He was armed with a simple short sword and a masterwork light crossbow. He also owned a stone of alarm, a potion of cure moderate wounds, a wand of shatter, as well as a bag of holding, packed with alchemists fire vials and potions he gladly made available for purchase.
Before the Cult of the Dragons arrival in 1369 DR, Tarbash and his cousin, Robalend Lukka, made a living by scavenging the ruins of Myth Drannor. However, that vocation was cut short when the cultists took over the ruins, and Robalend was captured.
A month after, by chance, Tarbash Dellkisel encountered a group of heroes who were searching for enslaved villages taken to the ruins of Myth Drannor. He saw them moving along a path from the Shrine of Mystra to the City of Songs Polyandrium and called out to them from thick bushes. He warned the adventurers of the Cult of the Dragon patrolling the area and advised a more stealthy approach. Tarbash agreed to help the heroes in exchange for their help in rescuing the unlucky cousin. Together with them, Tarbash made way to the Tower of Bones, the center of Cults operations in the Polyandrium. The group managed to gain access to the towers roof, where they confronted several cultists and the High Priest Ryngoth. They arrived just in time to rescue Robalend Lukka from being killed and raised as mindless undead servant of the Cult.
Thankful for the rescue, both gnomes decided to aid the heroes in the struggle against the Cult of the Dragon, and getting access to newly unsealed treasure-filled tombs of Polyandrium was a nice incentive. Subsequently, the gnomes and the adventurers managed to sneak into Castle Cormanthor and destroy the phylactery of a dracolich Pelendralaar, leading to the Cults downfall at the hands of the Veiled Ones.