| refs35         = 
| alignment      = 
| rules          = 
Tarmas was a male human wizard of the village of West Harbor on the Sword Coast North in the 1370s DR.
Tarmas was balding and generally adopted a sour expression. He wore robes of dark brown and grey hues.
Misanthropic and quick to deride his neighbours, Tarmas generally kept to himself. Though he maintained a quiet respect for the hardy folk of the Mere of Dead Men.
thumb|Tarmas battles a Githyanki.
An adept wizard, Tarmas had developed a talent with altering the effects of certain spells and could extend their duration or empower them, as needed. 
Despite his surly demeanor, Tarmas was a capable tutor and had trained a number of apprentices in West Harbor.
Tarmas came to live in West Harbor after the First War of the Shadow, as the city life was unappealing to him. The villagers decided that he needed to train apprentices, so he took Amie Fern and adopted her, since her parents had died in the First War against the King of Shadows.
During the Harvest Fair in the , Tarmas planted the three feathers for the Knaves Challenge. During the attack of the bladelings and duergar, he aided the villagers, but Amie was slain helping him in spell-battle against a githyanki mage.
Tarmas survived the Second War of the Shadow, but new problems faced West Harbor. As the town was rebuilding after the war, the towns new mayor, Lazlo Buckman, unbeknownst to the villagers, stroke a protection deal with two black dragons. Dragons Voaraghamanthar and Waervaerendor received the towns famous Harvest Mead in exchange for keeping the swamps dangers at bay. However, the deal was broken and the dragon began menacing West Harbor. Tarmas set out to infiltrate the dragons den further into the swamps but ended up disappearing – captured and locked away. Lazlo grew worried and sent Ginni and Pitney Lannon to retrieve the missing wizard. The man Lannons rescued, however, was one of the dragons who used polymorph magics to infiltrate West Harbor in Tarmass guise.
Luckily, a band of adventurers who sough to establish a trading post in West Harbor became involved. They ventured deeper into the caves and eventually found gaunt and beaten Tarmas still in a cage. He was rescued and brought safely to West Harbor, where the dragons confronted the towns defenders issuing an ultimatum – Voaraghamanthar and Waervaerendor would take over the town and its mead production or the town would become a ruin. Even though it remained unknown if West Harbor defeated the dragons or was calm by its new draconic masters, Tarmas survived the experience and continued to take apprentices, with Jan Lannon amongst them, while also being a trader of magic goods and trinkets.