Tebryn Dhialael, also known as Dalael He was later known as Kirenkirsalai or Kire.
Tebryns skin was not as dark as a normal drows but enough to betray his origin, as did his white hair. Contrary to this, his blue eyes were clearly a gift from his human parent. He had a strong and slender build like most half-elves.
Tebryn was born into slavery in the Underdark drow city of Sschindylryn. His opportunity to escape came when a duergar army from Underspires attacked the mining outpost where he toiled. The outpost was destroyed and Tebryn killed his masters and fled. He emerged from the Underdark in the tunnels under Westgate and lived as a thief.
Tebryn accidentally discovered the Lair of the Night Masters and stole some items from there. Discovering the theft, Orbakh and Dahlia Vhammos easily caught Tebryn.  He became the last vampire slave of Orbakh and the last victim of the Winged Teeth artifact. Tebryn was considered a perfect fit as master of the guilds thieves. Thanks to his magic and vampiric powers, he walked unseen on the streets of the city.
Tebryn greatly enjoyed his new life and the power that he had. Most of the lower members of the guild suspected him to be the Faceless.
After the desctruction of the Night Masks Tebryn took refuge himself among the Zhentarim until Orbakh ordered him to went back to Westgate. There Tebryn under the name Kirenkirsalai infiltrated the shou thieves’ guild of the Nine Golden Swords becoming one of their nine leaders.
Around 1475 DR Kire directed the Nine Golden Swords against the Fire Knives crippling their power and under orders of Orbakh he re-estabilished the Night Masks control over the city with him as new boss.
Later on, he bcame obsessed with the young mage Myrin DarkdanceThere are strong hints given in Eye of Justice that Kire is actually Myrins father although the relationship is never stated explicitly. and was the person behind the bounty for her capture in Luskan. In 1480 DR, Kire enlisted the help of Vaelis, a young paladin of Hoar and one of the claimants to the Shadowbane title, and also had Eye of Justice member Hessar in his employ.
Kire was obsessed with Myrin although the nature of his interest was never clear. It may have been related to family ties to House Darkdance or may have been due to Myrins powerful spellscar.