Telarn Erren Rayburton was one of the founders of Cormyr and a member of the noble Rayburton family.
Telarn was tall, like his father, but had a much sturdier build. He had steely blue-green eyes, crooked teeth, and wore his brown hair down to his shoulders. He had a prominent scar on one of his forearms. He usually sported gold earrings and a velvet doublet with slits in the sleeves to show off his scar.
Telarn was a bit full of himself, but this was somewhat justified because of his skill as a warrior. He claimed his scar same from various heroic deeds, such as being clawed by a dragon as he landed the death blow. Other stories included a sorceress that cut him with a dagger after hed overcome her evil spells and before he charmed her with a kiss, and a sword thrown by an orc before he slew it and twenty of its cohorts single-handed.
He was a skilled warrior and particularly favored the broadsword.
He owned a broadsword that was engraved with the family crest—the Rayburton "hawkdragon"—in black. At some point in his life, Telarn came into possession of the familys secret treasure known as the Rayburton Jewels. He interred them with his wifes corpse in a crypt beneath his bed in his personal chambers.
As his father and his uncle Belmer grew older and fatter, they became increasingly surly, withdrawn, and obsessed with money. Telarn stepped in and took over the defense of the Rayburtons holdings.
Telarns father Onkyl thought highly of him and encouraged Telarn to claim the Rayburton Jewels from his uncle Belmer so that he could have a better life than those of Onkyls generation.
Telarn married a woman named Jaless and sired two sons, Rauril ("Rory"), and Chelesmer.
At some point before he died, Telarn revealed the location of the Rayburton Jewels (and their mothers decaying body) to both of his sons individually on separate occasions. After Telarns death, Rory and Chelesmer went to claim the jewels and discovered that the crypt had been looted of both gems and corpse. This caused another rift between members of the Rayburton family as the brothers accused each other of treachery.