Telarian was a star elf diviner and a Keeper of the Cerulean Sign. He was subverted by the Traitor, becoming the lynchpin of the near-complete breach of  in Stardeep.
Telarian created and wielded the sword Nis.
Delphe viewed him as too humorless. He was supremely confident in his divinations.
Telarian knew at least one spell of lightning-charged wind that would bear the souls of those slain by it for eternity, capable of reducing even five of Cynosures instances to smithereens at once. He also had a talent for both creating magical weapons and modifying or subverting constructs. Though he was convinced of his gift for prophecy, he was consistently, repeatedly blindsided by the actual outcome of events he had also been subverted unknowing by the Traitor.
While by , Telarian was nominally the Keeper of the Outer Bastion and oversaw the Empyrean Knights, he spent an inordinate amount of time making trips to Laothkund, where he acquired components to build the Epoch Chamber he also spent a long time reconditioning the magical armory in Stardeep, building the sword Nis, subverting the construct Cynosure to his will, and looking further into the future, investigating the coming rise of Xxiphu from the Epoch Chamber.
Before he was a Keeper, he was an Empyrean Knight as one, he enjoyed games of dice with his officers and occassional forays into the Underdungeon of Stardeep.
Prior to becoming consumed by his visions, Telarian had been close friends with Captain Brathtar. There had been some friction with Delphe when he had not been chosen to wield the remaining Cerulean Sign. He felt Delphe could not know what to make of his gift for prophecy.
He was a knight while Kiril Duskmourn and Nangulis were the Keepers of Stardeep, who had investigated the Underdungeon together with Captain Brathtar at least once. Starting two years prior to 1375, around , guided by the certainty that Xxiphu would rise if he did not stop it himself, Telarian had dug through a repository for a prototype Cynosure node Telarian planned to combine Angul with Nis to create a blade capable of releasing and then slaying the Traitor, only to strike down the Eldest immediately after before Xxiphu could completely rise. To acquire Angul he also engaged the thief Gage of Laothkund to steal Angul from Kiril Duskmourn after the thief proved unable to hold Angul for long, he finally told Gage to tell Kiril that the sword was sought by Nangulis.
In Midwinter of , Telarian had ordered Cynosure to lie about him being in Laothkund, when he was actually in the Epoch Chamber, scrying the future again to verify whether Xxiphu would still rise. He later ordered an attack on a wood elf encampment close to the Yuirwood side of the Causeway Gate. While the attack was carried out, he was in the Epoch Chamber he was approached by Delphe there not long after, and was forced to explain the meaning of both the attack and the chambers delving. During Brathtars later debriefing, he learned the attack was successful, but for a single survivor. There were later reprisals from the Masters of the Yuirwood in preparation for Kiril Duskmourns coming, he ordered all signs of battle be hidden, and that the Knights allowed her past only if she surrendered her weapon.
When Kiril and Gage defended themselves instead of letting him have the sword, he slew Brathtar when he refused to ride against Kiril, and soon after, was forced to slay the replacement he named on the spot, Dharvanum, after the latter decided that Telarian had gone insane. However, as Dharvanum had already ordered the knights to ride him down, he was forced to throw them down a trap into the Underdungeon. He was stopped from going out to meet Kiril only by Delphe ordering the gate closed, considering that the fighting outside and sudden activity from the Dreams of the Traitor happening in succession demonstrated that these attackers were there on behalf of the Abolethic Sovereignty. She had thus commanded Cynosure close the Causeway, and also disengaged him from all of Stardeeps functions.
During the check-up on Cynosure, after Telarian confirmed that neither the fellow keeper nor the construct suspected him, he decided to lead a force of Knights across the Underdungeon to meet Kiril. Secretly, a different motivation on his part was to minimize the forces available to Delphe should she discover his schemes. At the Underdungeon, he explored an underground city in a lapse of judgement, he requested a knight speak to an undead figure. The figure attacked and even roused hordes of undead to attack the knights. After the battle was joined by Kiril Duskmourn, it was won right away. Telarian christened the location of the battle "Callambea", and convinced Kiril that it was Delphe, his fellow Keeper, that had gone insane.
Along the way back, they were faced with Cynosure instances, after his fellow Keeper and the construct had uncovered his treachery Telarian destroyed all five constructs using a spell. When they approached within range of Delphes contacting spells and devices, Telarian reluctantly allowed Kirils companion, Raidon Kane, to employ his own bonded Cerulean Sign to access teleportation directly into the Chamber of Surveillance in Stardeep. However, while Kiril stalled Delphe, he feared he was caught, and attacked Kiril.
Raidons teleportation took effect at that point, and they continued their combat in the chamber Telarians sword absorbed Angul, and transformed into Angul-Nis. With the sword, he struck down Delphe. He immediately set about to destroy the wards holding the Traitor in place, and destroyed Cynosures instance within the Well with but one swing. By the end of the battle, Telarian was only stopped by Gage stabbing him in the back at the last possible moment. He fell inside the Well, where he wound up at the mercy of the Traitor. His failure was punished.