Teliene Coloara was a drow illithid slayer in the Underdark circa the 14 century DR.
She was consumed by hatred for mind flayers, longing for the destruction of their entire race. Teliene would never be satisfied until every illithid city lay in ruins and every elder brain was destroyed this was the only way she could make certain her vengeance on the mind flayers who killed her family.
Although she was a powerful psychic warrior in general, Teliene had specialized in the art of killing mind flayers. She could sense the presence of nearby illithids, and possessed a number of defenses that safeguarded her specifically from mind flayer attacks.
In combat, Teliene wore a suit of ectoplasmic chainmail and wielded a suppression longsword. Her body was marked with two tattoos of displacement. She also carried a locket containing a lock of her mothers hair.
Teliene wandered the Underdark with a singular purpose killing as many mind flayers as she could.
Teliene was born into a minor branch of House Coloara,Although the Realms Personalities article does not make this clear, Coloara is listed as a noble house of Menzoberranzan on p. 97 of The Drow of the Underdark. one of the many feuding drow noble houses of Menzoberranzan. As a teenager she was forced to watch her entire family be butchered by mind flayers. Exactly how Telienes family ended up in the clutches of illithids was unknown, and could be attributed to anything from the machinations of a rival house to sheer bad luck. The experience awakened a latent psionic talent within Taliene, which ultimately saved her life. Her mind flayer captors did not consider the young Taliene to be a serious threat, but kept her around to develop her psychic abilities for their own amusement&mdashand to make her brain more delicious over time. She was taken to a mind flayer city where she was treated like a prize hog and made to live with their chuuls and other slaves.
She remained a prisoner until the mind flayer city came under attack by an unknown enemy. Seeing her chance to escape, Teliene slipped away while her captors were fighting. She spent the next few weeks aimlessly wandering the Underdark as she subsisted, barely, on what little scraps of edible fungi and blind insects she could find. Fortunately, she was eventually found by the duergar hermit Tyrak, who had been drawn to her after sensing she shared his hatred for mind flayers. Tyrak nursed Teliene back to health and taught her how to fight their hated foe.
Although Tyrak eventually passed away, Teliene persevered and kept their shared purpose alive by ridding Toril of one mind flayer at a time.