Tephanis was a quickling of the mid–14 century DR who had served many masters, including the barghest Ulgulu.
In the , when a group of their gnolls sent to retrieve a pair of farmers, the father and eldest son of the Thistledown family, never returned, Ulgulu and his brother Kempfana sent Nathak to scout out what happened. He returned and told both Kempfana and Ulgulu that their raiding party of five gnolls were dead. After that, Ulgulu sent his quickling ally Tephanis to discover exactly what had happened.
When Tephanis returned and told them that the newly surfaced drow Drizzt DoUrden had slain the goblins, they had the quickling steal one of Drizzts scimitars. Ulgulu used his shape-changing abilities to make himself appear as a drow, and with Drizzts scimitar, attacked the Thistledown farm. After slaying the residents, he left the broken scimitar so as to make people believe that Drizzt had killed the family. When Drizzt learned what had happened, he and Guenhwyvar began tracking Ulgulu to his lair. Tephanis attacked him as he ascended the cliff, only to collide with a plowshare the drow had dragged from the farm, enabling him to grab and interrogate the quickling. In an attempt to free himself, Tephanis stabbed Drizzt in the forearm but his attack only served to anger the drow, who slammed him into a wall and threw him off the cliff. The quickling recovered in time to levitate to safety. Terrified of Drizzt, Tephanis hesitated to immediately warn Ulgulu of his approach before later finding the two barghests and many of their goblin allies dead.
Tephanis was not happy being uprooted and now had to find a new "ally" to help him. In the , Tephanis served as a messenger between the bounty hunter Roddy McGristle an orc chief named Graul and Caroak, a winter wolf, to team up against Montolio Debrouchee and Drizzt in revenge for killing his previous master, Ulgulu. After a major battle that saw Roddy and Tephanis lead an orc army and a pack of winter wolves in an attack on Mooshies Grove, Montolio and Drizzt emerged as the victors.
Afterward, Tephanis spotted Roddy tied up in the elf Kellindils camp, to be taken to Sundabar to be tried for his crimes, mainly against Montolio and Drizzt. Tephanis cut Roddys bindings, allow the bounty hunter to strangle his captor, Kellindil, with his bare hands. Then they buried him and whatever supplies they couldnt carry. Thereafter, Tephanis and Roddy traveled together to track down Drizzt.
However, Tephanis told Roddy by mistake that he killed Drizzt and the Weeping Friars by locking them in Hephaestuss lair, in his attempt to prevent Roddy from traveling constantly. Roddy ordered Tephanis into the bag he traveled in, but then bashed it and Tephanis until the quickling was dead.