| reckoning      = 
| dob            = 
| dobnotes       = 
| turned         = 
| turnednotes    = 
| death          = 1357
| deathnotes     = slain by Cult of the Dragon mage on Mirtul 20
| destroyed      = 
| destroyednotes = 
| daterefs       = 
Thail was a wizard adventuring in the Company of the Bright Spear in the mid-14 century DR.
He was older than his companions.Were this to include Delg, thatd render Thail either a half-elf or an elf. Shandrils attestation that she never saw elves suggests hes a half-elf, but no mention is made of this fact. It is possible Thail is just oldest amongst the humans.
Thail could cast a spell that launched projectiles of light, almost certainly magic missile, and considered within his power a spell that put foes to sleep, almost certainly sleep.
He owned at least one spellbook, He carried a potion of healing.
He largely deferred to his companions.
Prior to Mirtul 6 of the , Thail had gathered from records in Suzail that elves had lived by the Sember River.
Thail was a part of the Company of the Bright Spear on that date, when they stopped at the Rising Moon in Highmoon. There, after Lynxal of the company was slain, the whole companys valuables were robbed by Shandril Shessair, who asked to join them to replace their thief. They rode from Highmoon to Myth Drannor. Along the way, when confronted by heavy mist, Thail was ambivalent on whether they should continue within the mist or wait until it lifted. He was the first one to notice the water when they reached the edge of the Semberflow by evening. He was also the one to identify the best place to cross the river. He fought alongside the company when they were attacked afterwards, deciding not to use a spell to make their foes fall asleep given the situation, on Mirtul 12.
After Elminster interfered by making their foes flee, Thail was sent to collect the companys horses. Shandril left to scout ahead following the attackers caravan. When she returned after following a detachment sent to kill their pursuers, Thail rendered aid upon her when she was injured fighting the detachment. He perished on Mirtul 20.
The wizards demise was confirmed later by Delg and Elminster.