Thanadar of Dragonrock was an adventuring ranger through the early-to-late-mid-14 century DR, and a member of The Nine.
He was tall, with graying hair, steel-gray eyes, and an urbane manner.
Though once merry and proud, he was much-changed since.
Despite his age, the ranger was very strong in  despite a career that stretched before  and a human lifespan.
Of note, due to a curse, Thanadar had to change his name.
Thanadar had a significant amount of magic on him, including a defender longsword, a ring of shooting stars, a girdle of many pouches, a seemingly endless supply of potions of healing in it, and a blink ring with the ability to use blink, dimension door, and teleport without error twice a day each.
Thanadar led a small band of caravan guards hed trained himself, which operated in the Sword Coast North.
Once one of The Nine alongside the bard later known Arnthiir Windrivv and Laeral Silverhand, after they were released from their curses, Thanadar continued to be in occassional contact with Laeral Silverhand.
Notably, Thanadar had taken the name of a grand-uncle of his, a man from Dragonrock, who had died some decades prior to .
Thanadar had gained the rare trust of the elves in Greycloak Hills and could pass through unmolested.
The bard was one of the Nine in , the year in which they acquired the Crown of Horns, a Myrkulite artifact the crown put a curse on them that gave any hordling in Hades the ability to teleport without error to their presence, even across planes, by simply uttering their names. Laeral came to possess the Crown through most of that time with its fell power, the artifact drove the adventurers to fight each other until Laeral was rescued by Khelben Arunsun. The mage then broke the curse on the surviving members, including him and the ranger, but that required them to abandon their old names.
By the mid-to-late 14 century DR, he spent most of his time heading a company of caravan guards throughout the Sword Coast North.
It was said he kept a cache of enchanted devices in the Marsh of Chelimber.