| reckoning      = 
| dob            = 
| dobnotes       = 
| turned         = 
| turnednotes    = 
| death          = 1373
| deathnotes     = Suicide attack while controlled by Elminster Aumar
| destroyed      = 
| destroyednotes = 
| daterefs       = 
Thauvas Zlorn, also known as Khornadar of Westgate, was a Red Wizard of Thay active during the late 14 century DR. He was a liaison with the Rightful Conspiracy of Cormyr.
In his disguise as Khornadar, he was tall, with a thin spike-shaped beard.
He was capable of using magic to disguise himself, and claimed to have a ward against being magically eavesdropped on, which included some of his surroundings. One of his spells allowed him to sift the thoughts of other people near him. Another of his spells was an offensive flame of some kind.
He was a fellow of Naerzil, and served another, unseen mage.
Elminster Aumar made the acquaintance of Thauvas Zlorn without him knowing, while the latter was a minor mage of Thay, around the year . Later, in the early spring of the , Elminster disguised himself and infiltrated the Righful Conspiracy, where he met Thauvas Zlorn in his disguise as Khornadar of Westgate. The latter tried to magically pry into the mind of Elminster, but saw nothing of import during their conversation, he mentioned his intention to call upon the Society of Stalwart Venturers to retrieve lost magic.
Elminster later held up Thauvas as the meeting was raided by the War Wizards of Cormyr, intending to question the man. After a brief magical struggle, Elminster captured him. He admitted to the intention to use the Society of Stalwart Venturers in the aftermath of a successful conspiracy. His interrogation was cut short by the arrival of Narnra Shalace, a Waterdhavian thief, whod followed Elminster into the meeting, and then ran into him again while escaping the approaching War Wizards. Elminster used much magic to breach his mind.
He was later released as reinforcements came for the Red Wizards on the arrival of his fellow Red Wizard, Naerzil, he pretended to take control, ordering Naerzil to take everyone prisoner. When Naerzil said Thauvass own survival depended on a later decision by their superiors, Thauvas spoke with a voice different from his own, and attacked him suicidally, using a spell that echoed Elminsters movements a moment prior. This strongly implied Elminster was controlling him. Thauvas was killed in the attack.