The Absolute was the object of worship of the Cult of the Absolute.
To those outside the cult, the nature of the Absolute was shrouded in mystery for some time. It was generally assumed to be a deity, with many professing themselves acolytes and clerics of it. The Absolute was represented by a symbol combining aspects of the holy symbols of the Dead Three. 
Later on, it was revealed that the Absolute was not in fact a deity, but rather an empowered elder brain, which had been enslaved by the Chosen of the Dead Three. These Chosen were Ketheric Thorm of Myrkul, Enver Gortash of Bane, and the Dark Urge of Bhaal, though the Dark Urge was later usurped by Orin the Red. The empowered elder brain was brought under their command through the use of the Crown of Karsus, an artifact of untold power created by Karsus. The Chosen used three unique Netherstones to communicate with the Crown and dominate the elder brain. The elder brain had the typical appearance of one of its kind, but was gargantuan in size by comparison.
Enhanced by the Crown of Karsus, the Elder Brain laid modified mind flayer tadpoles that induced a suspended ceremorphosis that left the host susceptible to the telepathic influence of the Absolute. Two key features of this were that the host remained unaware of its manipulated state and that this control persisted even at distances beyond the usual range of the elder brain. These tadpoles allowed for paused ceremorphosis and facilitated the covert spread of infection in those known as True Souls. Moreover, the tadpoles were irremovable by both physical and magical means attempts to remove them risked severe cranial trauma or death.
Sometime in the 11 century DR, the yet-to-be-subjugated elder brain was at the helm of a mind flayer colony beneath Moonrise Towers, capturing various beings for transformation into its own kind. Among the captives was an adventurer known as Balduran. At some point, owing to a lack of food, the elder brain entered a dormant state to preserve its life, until the Dark Urge, Bhaals Chosen, and Banes Chosen Enver Gortash found it and subdued the elder brain with the Crown of Karsus.
In the late 15 century DR, many tribes began to swear allegiance to the Absolute, and other creatures became united and rallied to the cause. Volothamp Geddarm heard about this and sought out any who made contact with the zealots of the Absolute. He claimed to have interrogated a goblin captive, who told him that they had forsaken Maglubiyet "in favor of someone called The Absolute." Volo noticed that, since their loyalty was now with the Absolute, they had become "informed by a kind of strategy anathema to their kind." The well-known storyteller intended to get to the bottom of the matter.
The Absolute had an interest in finding a "weapon", specifically, a githyanki artifact that Shadowheart (a follower of Shar) obtained through a suicidal mission in the . The Absolute appeared to be guiding a set of leaders of the Cult of the Absolute Minthara, Dror Ragzlin, and Gut.
The psyche of the Netherbrain.
It was later revealed that the elder brain had been a key figure in the behind-the-scenes manipulation of the Cult of the Absolute. Initially thought to be controlled by the Crown of Karsus, it was revealed that the crown was actually a catalyst for its machinations. It chose to play along with the three Chosens and their commands, offering them just enough power to play their part in its intricate plans, which involved building an illithid army.
At first, the elder brain was completely controlled by the Crown of Karsus through the Netherstones held by the three Chosen. However, when the Dark Urge was assassinated and replaced by Orin the Red, this control weakened. Seizing the opportunity, the elder brain orchestrated a plan to overthrow its masters. It inserted a vision of the Astral Prism into Gortashs dreams and instilled in him a fear of its potential power. In response, Gortash commanded the elder brain to send lackeys to retrieve the Prism. Among them, the elder brain purposely sent a mind flayer known as the Emperor, a formal thrall who had escaped earlier. It had foreseen that the Emperor would find the Prism first, regain its free will, then bring other powerful allies with him, who would eventually kill the Chosen, setting the stage for its own emancipation.
Evolved through the transformative powers of the Crown of Karsus and later becoming the Netherbrain, it was no longer a pawn. It demonstrated its strategic genius by manipulating not only the leaders of the Cult, who had thought they were using it for their own ends, but also the Emperor. Unbeknownst to them, the Netherbrain had meticulously anticipated their actions. Contrary to their belief that it could be dominated or controlled, the elder brain required just the loosening of a single Netherstone to secure its freedom. They inadvertently played into its hands by eventually bringing all three Netherstones, setting the stage for its ultimate emancipation.