The Winged was a fallen planetar that dwelled on the Prime Material plane, in the nation of Thay on Toril during the late 14 century DR. She was once a servant of Torm, the God of Duty, before her downfall.
The Winged was a guarded and personal individual who seldom spoke to anyone other than Dennaton, the operator of a gladiatorial arena in Thay, and members of her mercenary company, the Planar Hunters. She always ensured she was paid in full, and exactly on time according to her schedule.
Among her other possessions, the Winged wore a single, unique gauntlet that granted her exceptional power in combat. The powerful armored glove could be worn by no one else but her.
The Winged led the mercenaries known as the Planar Hunters. Among its members were the admaantine golem Bannor Kaxazel, an efreeti by the name of Dormamus, the bard Joker, the Red Wizard Pol Pyrrus, and a fire salamander called Thassk Kun.
By all appearances, the Winged and her mercenaries worked under the employ of Dennaton. In truth, they were employed by Szass Tam, the Thayan zulkir of necromancy, during his campaign against his rival Aznar Thrul.
For some time during her existence, the Winged fought as a champion in the Blood War. It was not clear if she fought for the baatezu of the Nine Hells, or somehow aligned herself with the demons of the Abyss.
During her time on Toril, the Winged and the other Hunters served Dennaton by capturing powerful combatants and fearsome beasts and perilous entities that would serve as gladiators in Dennatons arena. They also acted as enforcers, to ensure the fighters remained subservient between their matches. Among the powers subdued by the Winged and her mercenaries were illithids, fiends from the lower planes, the dragon Yllaxxia and her offspring, and even two children of the god Bhaal, Enegar and Kastulor.
Before her fall, the Winged was a servant of the Faerûnian god Torm, who resided within Mount Celestia.
Circa the , The Winged and the Planar Hunters were dispatched by Dennaton to abduct the Champion of Baeloths Pit after their victory in the Black Pits within the Underdark. The Champion was one of many combatants selected to bolster the popularity of Dennatons arena.
When the group known as Raskilovs Ragers attempted to rebel against Dennaton, The Winged dispatched them with a single comet. 
Some time later, Dennation pitted the Champion of Baeloths Pit against a squad of fallen astral and monadic devas led by Ariziel.They held a particular and personal hatred for the Winged.
When the Winged and the Hunters were ordered to gather a tarrasque to fight in the arena, and Dennaton remained distracted with other fights, the Champion of Baeloths Pit orchestrated an uprising of their own. The Winged and the Hunters proved unsuccessful, but managed to survive the encounter. The fallen planeter and her allies and were summoned back to the arena to combat the Champion and other rebellious slaves.