The Captive was an ancient, unknown being that was imprisoned within the Spirit Vault, a specialized structure built by the dwarves of the Domain within their underground city. As of the Era of Upheaval, it existed as a fossilized skeleton set into the stone walls of an underground chamber.
While the exact physical appearance of the Captive was not known, its skeletal remains were very well preserved. The creature stood about the height of four men, or twice the size of a giant. It was vaguely humanoid in appearance, with a skull that resembled that of a large feline, and distinct wings that extended out from its back.
The bones of the Captive did not appear like those from other creatures, but were veined with different colors ranging from light blue, to beige, to a coppery hue.
The Captive remained chained to the walls of the Spirit Vault with massive, magically enhanced chains.
While it was unknown exactly what powers the Captive held in life, its blood was an extremely powerful substance, A single vial of that blood was known to exist, preserved beneath the eternal flames of the Spirit Vault.
The artifact known as the Torque―which granted powerful magical protection to the wearer―was made from a single broken chain that bound the Captive to the Spirit Vault. It was said to grant its bearer the endurance, if not the might, of the Captive.
The dwarves of Chult venerated the Captive as some sort of god.
The only recorded information about the Captives life came from mosaics that decorated the serpentfolk city of Hisari. The Captives final moments were spent fighting a massive army that comprised thousands of yuan-ti. In the battle, the Captive still bore the chains that it wore in death, but appeared to have broken away from confinement.
It was believed by the dwarves of the Domain that the Captive was imprisoned by the sarrukh. Both the sarrukh and their progeny, the yuan-ti, referred to the Torque as "the Atrocity", were incapable of utilizing its power, and actively sought to destroy the artifact.
As of the late 15 century DR, both the yuan-ti and others sought out the blood of the Captive, in order to bring the being back to life and take control of its will.