Theldrant Ornan was a scribe.
He was a young man. While visiting Candlekeep, he wore boots with worn heels, and a cloak.
Throughout his visit to Candlekeep, he was starstruck and overwhelmed.
Theldrant Ornan carried a copy of Maskaumans Tome of Magely Might with him, which hed paid for with six years of savings from his wages as a scribe. Hed also acquired a badly damaged copy of Thalavoons Spells for My Sworn Mages, which he relinquished to get to Candlekeep.
Prior to his visit to Candlekeep, Theldrant Ornan had been a scribe copying ledgers for Darthus and Naerivrigg.
He was the last of the Ornan family.
The last of the Ornan family, Theldrant purchased a copy of Maskaumans Tome of Magely Might with the proceeds of six years of scribing ledgers in preparation for his arrival at Candlekeep. He also purchased a badly damaged copy of Spells for My Sworn Mages while at Elturel, but for other reasons, two seasons prior to his arrival.
Theldrant traveled to Candlekeep at some point when he was close, on the Way of the Lion, with a caravan from Tethyr ahead of him, he decided to trek through the forest at night rather than try and rest. This was because he considered the men from the caravan unfriendly and brigands likely.
On arrival at the gates, his first entry gift, Maskaumans Tome, was rejected, the monk explaining they owned a score of copies already. He tried, hoping against hope, with his other, untitled poetry book hed managed to acquire for two coppers the monk explained that the book was actually Thalavoons Spells. Theldrant, who had been using the book for paper scraps, was surprised and upset. He agreed, however, to surrender the book in exchange for entry.
Once inside, Theldrant continued to prove to be drained, starstruck, upset and overwhelmed he met the Keeper of the Emerald Door, who warned him not to damage any book inside or use it for scraps, lest he be killed for it. Soon after, he fainted, only to be reanimated by Belabra, and witness some more of the monastery, such as the Endless Chant, a book floating across the room, and finally got himself caught in the crossfire of some books firing off blasts of magic. He woke up injured in a secret passage, believing himself to have landed there by mistake. One of the monks, Othraun, spotted him by casting his sight out of a nearby book, and told him to stay put before he blunders into the wards of the Inner Rooms.