Theod was a female troglodyte barbarian who roamed the Deep Wastes on raids for her tribe.
Theod wore studded leather armor and gauntlets on her raids. She typically wrapped herself in a cloak and wielded an oversized morningstar.
She took great enjoyment in battle, especially close-quarters fighting. Theods sojourns were often motivated by the allure of acquiring treasure from those she defeated.
A fine tracker, Theod was an experienced traveler in the Underdark and was quite good at listening to her quarrys movements. In battle, although not overly strong, she was a furious combatant who wielded an oversized morningstar with deadly effect. If needed, Theod could shift her attacks to smash an opponents weapon or intersperse vicious swipes of her claw between her morningstars blows. Despite her barbarian rages leaving her heedless to attacks, Theod could rely on her uncanny reflexes and troglodyte stench to see her through a fight.
On Theods hunts, she was well-equipped with a number of magical items. She wore studded leather armor +2, a cloak of resistance +2, and a ring of protection +1 on her finger. A set of gauntlets of ogre power helped improve her strength above average and wield her giant-sized morningstar +2 more effectively. In battle, she would make careful use of her javelin of lightning and her potion of haste.
Theod worked ably alongside Skred, a fellow barbarian in their raiding group. Both of them respected the commands of their leader, Latar, and followed his clever battle plans, even if it meant delaying attacks or attacking from range. 
Hailing from a troglodyte settlement in the Deep Wastes, Theod became one the most experienced warriors in the raiding group led by Latar, a cleric of Laogzed. In 1372 DR, Theod joined with Latar, Skred, and many other troglodytes to cause mayhem in the tunnels between Szith Morcane and Maerimydra. However, after causing much chaos, the groups numbers waned and they started to become desperate to find some real plunder before returning home.