Thormud Horn was a dwarven geomancer in southern Mulhorand during the late 14 century DR. He retained the services of Kiril Duskmourn as a bodyguard.
His voice was low and melodious.
He didnt tell jokes often enough for his bodyguards taste.
He considered himself to be in the last fifty years of his career.
Thormuds ability to summon beings of the earth was awesome, allowing him to call upon granite destriers and even elemental nobles such as Prince Monolith. He often used divination rituals. He was also capable of opening gaps in magically protected stone, even where Prince Monolith had failed. His spells were granted by a divine source, and thus vulnerable to abilities that targetted those.
Thormud often employed a white selenite rod for divinations and summonings. He was also the owner of the Finger Defiant.
Thormuds bodyguard was Kiril Duskmourn. His familiar was Xet. He shared some bond with Prince Monolith.
In , Thormud Horn discovered a disruption of the telluric currents beneath the earth getting in the way of his prognostications. He tracked that disruption south to Durpar, one of them dropped a fragment of plangent crystal after its destruction. After his next prognostication, he summoned the elemental lord Prince Monolith since a demon was summoned in response to his divinations.
The earth elemental convinced him to turn north, where he had determined the ultimate source of that corrupting influence was found. Thormud soon discovered he was afflicted during one of his attempts at discerning the nature of the corruption while seeking shelter from a dust storm in Al Qahara, his bodyguard learned that the dwarf had been cursed. Soon after, they arrived at the Palace of the Purple Emperor, with the geomancer barely alive at that point. After identifying the structure, the dwarf bade Kiril and Monolith go into the structure without him, so that they may break the evil influence that was killing him. He sent Xet with them.
After sealing Pandorym, Prince Monolith quickly took the dwarf back to civilization, looking for a healer. He also parted ways with Kiril, to whom he gifted Xet. They wouldnt travel together until , when together with her and his old-time familiar, they went to the Vilhon Reach. There, they purchased access to Returned Abeir from the Chalk Destrier.