Thurbrand () was a fighter in Arabel during the mid–14 century DR. He also served as the leader of the Company of Dawn, an adventuring and mercenary company that operated throughout Cormyr and the surrounding Heartlands.
He had piercing, emerald-green eyes and fine, gold hair that thinned out by around his 30 year He lost what what hair he had left when he made an unwanted pass at a certain Cormyrean spellcaster that later became a goddess.
The jovial mercenary was very outgoing if a little disingenuous in his dealings.
He dreamed of building a stronghold in the Stonelands but he knew he did not have the power to defeat the Zhents in the area so he waited for the right opportunity to carry out fulfill his ambitions.
Thurbrand was exceptionally knowledgeable about the Stonelands, and knew many valleys and tombs in the area.
The mercenary was friends with Kelemvor Lyonsbane even after the two had a falling out over some forgotten disagreement.
For a time he rode atop a black stallion with a dark red mane.
Having lived as a warrior from his earliest years, Thurbrand led numerous campaigns in the Stonelands to fight orcs, trolls, kobolds, bandits, and even more dangerous creatures. These expeditions were dangerous and led to few of his companions returning safely to civilization. On one occasion, when fighting a dark naga, Thurbrand came back as the only survivor while on another, the evil Zhentarim wizard Whisper killed seven of the Thurbrands companions.
In the , Thurbrand and his Company of Dawn accompanied his old friend Kelemvor, along with his traveling companions Midnight, Adon, and Cyric, who recently fled Arabel accused of crimes they did not commit. While the mercenaries and adventurers traveled together through Spiderhaunt Wood to Shadowdale, the Company of Dawn suffered many death by the forests giant spiders. Despite their losses, Thurbrand helped Kelemvor and the others gain admittance into the dale, and even returned to Arabel to try and help clear his name in Arabel.
During his adventuring career, Thurbrand amassed a large amount of treasure.