Due to the proximity between h & g and e & r on a keyboard, as well as the commonality of spelling errors in Living City modules, this was most likely just a misspelling of "Torheim". There is a Torgrim Wolfrunner mentioned earlier in the adventure, though its unclear if they are meant to be the same person.
Torheim was a proxy of the Norse power known as Thor.
Being a proxy of Thor, Torheim held a special enmity towards all giants, heartily endorsing their murder. He also despised cowardice, though would be understanding towards avoiding a vastly outnumbered fight.
Torheim typically dressed in dark blue clothing, a set of chain mail, and a half-helm. He fought with a sword and shield.
In the , a group of adventurers from the city of Ravens Bluff journeyed to the plane of Ysgard in the Great Wheel cosmology in search of the legendary Well of Mimir, having been instructed by the citys Ministry of Art to do so in order to learn how a powerful githyanki artifact known only as the Great Machine could be destroyed. While traveling through the planes layer of Jotunheim, they either hid from or fought a hunting party of Ysgardian frost giants and mountain giants led by the frost giant jarl Habrok Icecaster. They soon after encountered Torheim, who, depending upon the version of events, either chastised the adventurers for their cowardice or praised them for their bravery, commenting that Habrok had killed many einheriar in the past and asking if they came to Jotunheim to slay him for a blood-debt.
Torheim was credulous of their quest for the Well of Mimir, and curious how they planned to not get killed by its guardian. Upon showing him the favor coin they had received from the Ministrys Master Fire, Torheim recounted a dream that Thor gave him a few days prior. In it he came across a warrior, who outstretched a bloody hand holding a gold coin resembling the coin held by the adventurers. He then outstretched his own hand, revealing two coins. The warrior took one of them, saying it was "For the slaying of foes," and then took the other whilst saying it was, "For the recovery of the prisoners token." The warrior then gave Torheim a golden feather and he woke up from the dream to find two favor coins in his purse. If the adventurers had fought the giants, then Torheim gave them one of his favor coins as a reward.
Torheim then told the adventurers that he was in Jotunheim to scout out the area around the giant fortress-city of Utgard for a scheme that required a great deal of planning if he was going to pull it off. He also explained to them that the city was ruled by Utgard-Loki, a powerful child of the Giant power Thrym, whom he had plans to embarrass utterly. Torheim offered the adventurers his second favor coin if they were willing to break into the nearby Brimirs hall and steal from its proprietor Brimir a deva feather he kept in a clay jar. He advised against fighting the halls over fifty giants and waited for them to return before dusk the next day.
When the adventurers returned the next day and bestowed upon him the feather, he finally explained why he wanted it. Torheim was on a mission to free a deva that was imprisoned within the depths of Utgard, which the feather belonged to, and having the feather would enable him to narrow down the angels position. He then presented a priest of either Ilmater, Torm, or Tyr in the party a power key of hold person, saying that the Norse god Tyr was pleased with their actions.