Torleth Mindulspeer was a shopkeeper just outside of Daggerford, in Gillians Hill.
Torleth was a tall and sickeningly thin man past his prime. He had a gloomy disposition and known for his dry wit. He was not a confrontational man, preferring to deal with good and honest folk and keep to himself, apart from competitors spats and cut-throat business practices. He accepted death as something natural and unavoidable, even when it came slowly and torturously to his loved ones.
Torleth seemed to know all merchants of the Sword Coast. And he cherished his reputation, the main thing that differentiated him from other antique dealers along the Trade Way.
Torleth had a bitter rivalry with another collector and curio shop owner from Daggerford, Vladmyr the Loan Shark.
Torleth managed Torleths Treasures, a crammed shop of oddities in Gillians Hill found south of Daggerford. He bought junk from visitors and sold it to others.
Torleth Mindulspeer had a long career of working in the curio business. Throughout the years, Torleth saw many other dealers come and go, but he persisted and remained in business majorly thanks to his good reputation, trust, and personality.
By 1372 DR, Vladmyr became Torleths main competitor. A ruthless businessman and unsavory loanshark, Vladmyr actively was trying to ruin Torleths Treasures and its proprietor. At one point, the hamlets narcissistic and dimwitted sculptor Yujist Glemp made a deal with  Vladmyr to purchase gold for his project. He planned to use the purchased precious material to double as collateral, but what he purchased was fools gold, pyrite. In fear, he allegedly fled Gillians Hill, leaving the "Barrels of Bamboozle" for infuriated Vladmyr to find. Torleth laughter at his rivals failure so hard, he decided to move the barrels of fools gold into his store as a pleasant reminder for himself.
The same year, aging Mindulspeer lost his dear wife to a sickness that was ravaging the farmlands of Daggerford. Even though there were many rumors that the plague was an outbreak of vampirism, Torleth knew it was a mundane disease, lacking the distinct bite marks. That was not the end of Torleths woes however. Shortly after, Vladmyr leveraged a service out of the Hero of Daggerford who was trying to help a downtrodden victim of the loan shark. The Hero was tasked with staling a precious and unique painting called Greatshout as a Young Man from Torleths vault. The work of art was replaced with a worthless fake. It was believed that this damaged the good mans reputation among some of his clients.
Nobody truly believed that Torleth survived solely on the income provided by his shop. Many suspected him to be an agent of the Zhentarim, the Red Wizards of Thay or even the Harpers or the Cult of the Dragon. Some suspected a gate existed inside his shop that led to Westgate, Suzail, Waterdeep, Mirabar or perhaps all of those places, and Torleth made money from people that used the gate.