Traevyn Illance was an old noble in Cormyr and lord of the Illance noble house in the late 15 century DR.
He was ruthless, and perhaps a little dramatic.
Traevyn Illance was white-haired.
He wore a half-cloak, worn boots, and carried a black walking cane. One of his rings was almost certainly enchanted in a way that would bring death upon a half-dozen people if needed, through means left unsaid.
Lord Traevyn had been a friend and creditor of Broryn Windstags father he was the one person Lord Windstag had trusted from youth. His son was Rothglar Illance.
Lord Traevyn Illance was part of a faction that sought to mind-control the king and dismantle the War Wizards.
Around , Traevyn Illance loaned 700,000 golden lions to Rauligus Helderstone, with an interest rate such that 10,000 more would be owed on the year, every year.
After the disastrous Council of the Dragon in late Mirtul of the  Traevyn visited Staghaven House, looking to invite the young nobles meeting therein (Broryn Windstag, Mellast Ormblade, Sacrast Handragon) into his faction. While he was there, Marlin Stormserpent arrived, asking to be sheltered from an unknown assailant who invaded his mind and controlled beholders. Before that could be resolved, Osbur, a servant of the Oldbridle family, also turned up, delivering a warning upon Traevyn, which he allowed the others to hear.
That night, he sent the mages Morligul Downdagger and Scarmar Heldeth to capture Rauligus Helderstone, actually Mirt in disguise only Morligul returned to him, with Scarmar cutting loose and fleeing after the strike. Morligul reported at the Three Ravens, after which they headed for the warehouse where hed stashed "Rauligus" unknown to Traevyn, Morligul himself had been replaced by the fugitive wizard Elminster Aumar. Traevyn then explained to the false Rauligus that he was going to make him sign off all properties by force as a manner of repaying his debts, and then ship him off naked to Westgate. Then, he got knocked out by Storm Silverhand, who was also impersonating Rauligus current playpretty, the lady Darlethra Greatgaunt Elminster stole all his stuff, with an eye to take all his magical items. 
Elminster and Storm resolved to spread the rumor that Traevyn Illance had captured and tortured Rauligus Helderstone to death as a way to slow him down.