tracker
Treahugh Greiko was an ex-ranger turned veterinarian at Berun Care in the village of Conyberry in the Sword Coast North in the late 14 century DR.
Once, Treahugh was a ranger who specialized in tracking the big monsters that rampaged around the North. Usually, it was wealthy city-dwellers who hired him for their big-game hunting expeditions, often men trying to demonstrate their prowess by slaying dangerous creatures. Treahugh would find them their chosen prey and try to keep them alive, often despite their best efforts, and did so successfully—nine times out of ten.
Then, one time, a merchant of Mirabar hired Treahugh to track a legendary creature known as the Mielikkar in the High Forest. Although Treahugh had never before heard of this beast and had a bad feeling about it, the pay was much too good to pass up and he set his misgivings aside. And so Treahugh, the merchant, and seven bearers set out and managed to track the Mielikkar down. The merchant took aim with an oversized crossbow and fired. Though the recoil knocked the small fellow over, the quarrel flew true and struck the Mielikkar in the heart it thrashed and died. And as it did, Treahugh understood hed committed a grave crime against his goddess, Mielikki. He lost all his divinely granted ranger abilities and all sense of closeness with the Supreme Ranger. In his grief and despair, Treahugh pulled out his hair, tore off his clothes, and wept.
Following seven days of mourning, left dehydrated and starving and clad in only rags, the broken-hearted Treahugh wandered out of the High Forest and into Conyberry. There he bought a disused shop and opened a clinic where he would devote himself to healing sick and injured animals, rather than hunting and slaying them.
His clinic, Berun Care, was in operation as of 1370 DR. Its reputation had begun to spread far and wide, from Mirabar in the north to Amn in the south. And once again wealthy city-dwellers came to Treahugh Greiko, now to have him tend to their prized animals.
Treahugh had a deep and abiding love for animals, and had an extraordinary bond with all his patients. Just having them around him was a balm to his broken spirit. During examinations, he was quiet, careful, thorough, and highly caring.
He had an astonishing skill with animals and veterinarian care, and had found a cure for every one of his patients. His shop was small but clean, and every animal that passed through its doors quickly felt calm and safe. Moreover, his services were surprisingly cheap, at around half the prices of a similar clinic in Silverymoon or Waterdeep.