Human
| ethnicity      = 
| occupation     = Adventurer
| age            = 
| patron deity   = 
| languages      = 
| basicrefs      = 
| death          = 1358
| deathnotes     = or earlier killed by fellow adventurers
| turned         = 1390
| turnednotes    = or earlier rose as a blueflame ghost
| daterefs       = 
Treth Halonter was a blueflame ghost in the late 15 century DR, once an adventurer among the Nine, in the early 14 century DR. He had been bound to the Wyverntongue Chalice.
He was a little less talkative than Relve Langral.
He carried a sword, even as a ghost.
He was taller than Relve Langral while a blueflame ghost, he smiled constantly.
While human, Treth Halonter had been one of the Nine, a band of adventurers led by Laeral Silverhand. As a blueflame ghost, he was controlled by Marlin Stormserpent, and then by Cymmarra, a sorceress.
When a blueflame ghost, Treth Halonter could walk through walls, and drain away the life force of the living. He could not, however, be made to attack another blueflame ghost.
Treth Halonter was a warrior among the Nine. Tharnadar of Dragonrock, all but stating that Treth had died prior to that moment in time. The object in which hed been bound, the Wyverntongue Chalice, had also almost certainly become his prison prior to its being presented to Filfaeril Obarskyr in life, and thus, would have been such prior to .
While a blueflame ghost, Treth Halonter claimed to have been a warrior among the Nine, reduced to madness before death by the evil Myrkul and then transformed into a blueflame ghost upon it. He had been called forth at some point prior to 1479 DR. This calling could only have happened prior to 1437 DR as well, as the item containing him, the Wyverntongue Chalice, had been largely unreachable for anyone but Marlin Stormserpent at least that long.
After testing the command to return to the item to his satisfaction in the Dragonskull Chamber of Castle Obarskyr, Marlin commanded him and fellow blueflame ghost Relve Langral go find and kill Seszgar Huntcrown in Suzail. In executing the command, the two went on a rampage. Every time they met someone on the streets, Relve asked if theyd seen Seszgar Huntcrown, with Treth adding immediately if theyd seen him recently. The duo killed anyone who didnt know where he was. Their rampage ended when they came across Belgryn Murenstur they intimidated the man into leading them to the Bold Archer.
After slaying the Huntcrown heir, the two took his corpse to Marlin Stormserpent at Stormserpent Towers he called on them to throw it in the furnace. They were called on afterwards to kill Jharakphred, an artist for hire, after the later painted for Marlin the likenesses of Draskos Crownsilver and Gariskar Dauntinghorn, who were to be the ghosts next target. Later, frightened out of his wits about the death of his trusty servant, Gaskur, Marlin used the ghosts to watch over him in his sleep.
On the evening after the disastrous Council of the Dragon, Treth Halonter and Relve Langral were sent into the palace as part of another plan, this time hatched by Marlin Stormserpent and Traevyn Illance both, in which Marlin would make himself out to be the one who stopped those ghosts. Along the way, however, they were spotted by one of the Lords of Waterdeep, Mirt, by the understeward Corleth Fentable, by the evil archmage vampire Manshoon, who was riding on Corleth Fentables mind at the moment, and finally by the renegade wizard Elminster Aumar. The ghosts were attacked before reaching the palace.
Relve Langral was almost destroyed by one of Elminsters spells returning to Marlin Stormserpent, who allowed the two ghosts to rest, on Halonters advice the ghost was quite distressed about the injuries theyd received. His next use of the ghosts was to try and capture him some breakfast in the wilderness after he fled Suzail unfortunately for him, the only creature they were able to kill was a bear, as everything else fled the unnatural entities.
The Wyverntongue Chalice was seized by Cymmarra after she slew Marlin Stormserpent she was building her own collection of those ghosts, which she mobilized towards the Bold Blazon at the Festival of Handras. She later pursued Elminster into a secret cave after he retrieved the belt buckle of Lord Calantar (Lord), secretly a blueflame item, wielding her retinue of ghosts against him there. She stopped using the blueflame items after The Simbul, restored by the belt buckle, slew her.