Trifakas was a wizard in a quest for Marteks sphere of power. He became stuck in the Garden of the Cursed together with Sardok and Pawnis, the only other survivors of his band, until other adventurers arrived.
Trifakas had top-notch intellect, outstanding agility, and a fairly good charisma, though he was quite scrawny. His spellbook included a number of spells, including charm person, comprehend languages, jump, write, darkness,  radius, forget, web, wizard lock, fireball, haste, lightning bolt, slow, fumble, polymorph other, polymorph self, feeblemind, magic jar, passwall, teleport and legend lore.
Trifakas was not interested in working with anyone else beyond his immediate crew, and would use guile and subterfuge with anyone else. He was very interested in learning as much as he could from other arrivals, but he took pains to conceal this interest. In particular, he wanted to have the Star Gems used under his supervision if possible, or stolen if not he was willing to join others only as a last resort.
The paladin Percivilis knew of him.
Trifakas had arrived together with Pawnis and Sardok about one week before the adventurers who ultimately resurrected Martek did. The two thieves were the last of Trifakas band. The three discovered they were trapped soon after entering Trifakas decided to live in a hut with Sardok, away from the Guilders. When new adventurers came bearing every Star gem of Martek, he had both thieves investigate these new arrivals, along with the local villagemaster Bandik.
He may have personally spoken with those adventurers. If so, he wanted to know if they had any large gems, telling them that to his knowledge, that was the only way out of the garden. He may have sent Sardok to filch all the Star Gems of Martek from the adventurers and used them to open the doors of Grandal himself.
If Trifakas band managed to acquire the Star Gems, they may have proceeded with the trials of Martek. In such a case, they may have been found dead by the entrance of Marteks treasury.