Tuelhalva Drakewings was a Wearer of Purple, one of the first in the Cult of the Dragon. He opposed Algashon Nathaires direction for the Cult, and became the leader of a faction that sought advancement for its members more than it sought to serve dracoliches under Bane, until his death in the .
Tuelhalva Drakewings became the most influential critic of Algashon Nathaire and Banite influence within the Cult of the Dragon by the  after the defeat of Sammaster. Though he became the leader of that faction, the number of followers in Algashon Nathaires faction soon forced him and his own into hiding, with occassional violence between the factions.
In the , he went to Peleveran to investigate rumors of an ancient undead dragon lurking in the catacombs of the capital city, Peleveria. Rather than a dragon, he uncovered the gathering evil of Gargauth instead. The fiend promised him power if freed Tuelhalva labored under the direction of its voice for seventeen years, creating the spells to release it. Gargauth also inspired Tuelhalva to plan a break from the Banite leadership of the Sembian cell of the Cult of the Dragon.
After Tuelhalva released Gargauth in the , the pit fiend granted him a horde of hellspawn to conquer Peleveran with. Tuelhalva called to his faction, all of which soon joined him in Peleveran to form a cell outside Algashons control he conquered the city within a fortnight and made his friends the nobility. However, Gargauth traveled back to Sembia, disguised himself as an old man, and fooled the Cult, telling them that Tuelhalva had only obtained that victory by slaying an undead dragon king. Algashon Nathaire, twenty other wizards, and many other dragons and dracoliches then struck Peleveran within a month, intent on eliminating Tuelhalva they succeeded, but Algashon was slain, too, and Peleveran was destroyed. As there had been a Rage of Dragons that year, the destruction of Peleveran was not always recognized as a Cult affair.
In the aftermath, the Banite faction of the Cult was decimated, mitigating the influence of Bane within the organization, and shifting it away from any particular worship.