Uddron Blass was an illithid cultist of the Absolute who wished to take down Baldurs Gate.
thumb|right|270px|Uddron towers over the Heroes of Baldurs Gate.
This curious illthid wore some sort of mask and hood. Uddron appeared to be far more muscular than a typical mind flayer, and revealed a well-built torso under a spiked mantle. Uddrons pupil-less eyes had a soft white-pink glow.
Uddron wielded a gold-silver two-pronged dagger.
Uddron sent lackeys to do their work whilst the mind flayer made preparations on behalf of the cult of the Absolute. However, Blass would step in should his underlings not be able to handle certain circumstances.
The Master seemed to keep a pet displacer beast, who closely followed their orders.
Prior to or during 1492 DR, Uddron Blass had infiltrated Baldurs Gate. A fight broke out between the heroes and the cult members. Father Alby, a former Kelemvorite, attempted to convince Nerys that the master, Uddron, had foreseen future events, and wished to show her their abilities. The heroes, however, managed to escape.
Shandie, with Minsc (and Boo!) and Nerys in tow, approached a man known as Fetcher to acquire information about Master Uddron. He, however, did not know more than they did about the hidden master. At that point, Uddrons mindwitness appeared, along with a group of cultists, but they were slain after a battle. The other two heroes, Krydle and Delina, were attacked by another group of cultists, but Uddron Blass stepped in and blasted them with great psionic energy.
Master Uddron successfully captured Krydle, Delina, and Coran, and had them chained up underneath the High Hall. Uddron revealed that a Flaming Fist captain belonged to them. Here, Blass tapped into Krydles mind, turning him against his father, and showing him visions of nautiloids pouring out a void. In a burst of wild magic energy, Uddron and Delina disappeared from the room, leaving the two adventurers behind with the displacer beast. As the beast was taken down, Coran and Krydle escaped.
Krydles and Uddrons minds were interlocked due to a mindflayer tadpole inside the former, and the remaining heroes made their way to a secret chamber under the streets. Here, Uddron believed he could bring Baldurs Gate to its knees by summoning the Mindbreaker. As the adventurers rushed in, Krydle stabbed Blass with a poisoned dagger, slaying the illithid. As this happened, Delina closed the portal on the Mindbreaker, causing it to be destroyed.