Blaze
Grand Duke Ulder Ravengard () was a lifelong soldier of the Flaming Fist who ascended to the rank of Marshal, and served on the Council of Four of Baldurs Gate in the late 15 century DR.
As a commander, Ravengard was a true warrior at heart and always took quick and relentless action in battle.
340x340px
Ulder Ravengard was highly disciplined and precise in his actions, and possessed great martial acuity. Despite that, he did lack the sophistication and tact of other dukes. While acted in the manner he always believed to be "good", he lost sight when it came to others who exhibited any sort of moral ambiguity.
He had an unwavering commitment to his duty to uphold the law, often evaluating others in terms of how they gave and obeyed orders. He also had a great sense of duty to his city and wanted to restore Baldurs Gates sense of pride.
He dedicated much of his focus to stamping out every lingering presence of the Guild in Baldurs Gate.
His preferred weapon of choice was a bastard sword. As a Marshal of the Iron Fist, Ulder wore a marshal medallion, a plate of high command, and defended himself with the Aegis of Baldurs Gate – all enchanted items, and the Aegis was rumored to once had been wielded by "Baldur" himself. During Elturels Descent into Avernus, Ulder recovered an enchanted sword, Lathanders Might, from the deitys chapel. Following the citys return to the Prime Material plane, the Duke was gifted Hellrider dagger by one of the Hellriders. The imprisonment at the bottom of the Gray Harbor, following Elturels Descent, gave Ulder Ravengard a Helm of Torms Sight.
As Blaze, Ulder Ravengard served as the Warden of the Wyrms Rock fortress.
Ulder was born into a poor family that lived in the Gates Lower City. His father was a blacksmith, and he had three older brothers. 
Prior to his ascension as Marshal of the Flaming Fist, Blaze Ravengard enjoyed a strong working relationship with Grand Duke Abdel Adrian.
He was well acquainted with the ostentatious elven statesman Coran.
Ulder joined the Flaming Fist at a young age,
right|340x340px|Grand Duke Ravengard makes a point at the first Council of WaterdeepIn the , the Grand Duke embarked on a visit of diplomacy to the city of Elturel at the behest of Thavius Kreeg. Unfortunately for him and all of Baldurs Gate, his visit coincided with the catastrophe that saw the entire city being plunged down into the plane of Avernus in the Nine Hells. 
In fact, his trip was part of Thalamra Vanthampurs scheme to appease the Archdevil Zariel and ascend as the new Grand Duke. Without his leadership, the Flaming Fist hierarchy collapsed, the military became overwhelmed and lashed out against Baldurians with brutal retaliation. To restore some order, Liara Portyr was appointed as acting Marshal by her uncle, Duke Portyr.
Meanwhile, in Elturel, in the plane of Avernus, Ulder was telepathically assaulted by the Demon lord Baphomet and put into a catatonic state, through the use of the Helm of Torms Sight.
The Grand Duke returned to Faerûn with the city of Elturel and its surviving citizens. He and a contingent of Flaming Fist soldiers traveled west along the Risen Road to Baldurs Gate, staying at the inn called Waukeens Rest. Unfortunately, the inn was raided by goblins and drow belonging to the Cult of the Absolute, and it was believed Ravengard was abducted to Moonrise Towers.
At Moonrise, Ketheric Thorm, the Chosen of Myrkul, implanted Ravengard with a magically modified mind flayer tadpole, forcing him under the control of the elder brain known as the Absolute. Under this influence, Ravengard was taken to Baldurs Gate, where he nominated Thorms co-conspirator Enver Gortash for the position of Archduke of Baldurs Gate. Subsequently, no longer useful to the leaders of the Cult of the Absolute, Ravengard was removed by Gortash to the hidden underwater prison called the Iron Throne.
Despite the imprisonment and the grave danger of the prison being flooded as a contingency, Ulder Ravengard was rescued. Soon after the rescue, Ulder stood alongside the protectors of the Gate against the armies of the Absolute in the Battle for Baldurs Gate – the culmination of the Absolute crisis.