Lord Urtos Phylund I was the patriarch of House Phylund, a noble family of Waterdeep, in the mid-14 century DR. Until his untimely death, he was the Director of the Field of Triumph arena in the City of Splendors.
Lord Phylund was a hunter, a beast-tamer, and an exotic creature dealer. He also bred monsters for sport and profit.
The Phylund family had a villa in the North Ward of Waterdeep located on the corner of Copper Street and Julthoon Street. Urtos built a "hunting lodge" in Ardeep Forest that, after years of improvements, became a small keep with courtyards, gardens, kitchens, stables, a great hall, guest rooms, and a wine cellar. Beneath the structure were cages and cells for holding monsters and the family crypts.
Urtos made a large fortune breeding and taming monsters and exotic creatures for various clients and hosting beast hunts at the lodge in Ardeep Forest. He was also the Director of the Field of Triumph, organizing exhibitions, contests, martial displays, and gladiatorial games.
Urtos was the son of Bartos and Nydurra. Urtos and his first wife, Urta, had a son, Urtos II, and another son they named Bartos who died at a young age. Urtos II joined his father on hunting trips when he was old enough and eventually hosted his own expeditions for the sporting nobles around town. Sometime after Urta passed away, Urtos married Aridarye and she bore him a son, Urtos III.
The Phylund family was originally from Tethyr and was ennobled in the , having gained fame and fortune by taming monsters and trading in exotic creatures. Urtos built his hunting lodge in Ardeep Forest in the , and used it to host beast-hunting events for the idle rich of Waterdeep. After his first wife died, he became enamored with Aridarye, a young beauty from Tashalar, and they married in the month of Ches in the . Aridarye gave birth to Urtos III in the .
In Alturiak of the , he received word that his son and heir, Urtos II, had perished in a vicious attack by a large pack of wolves in Ardeep Forest. The sole survivor of the massacre believed Urtos II had been killed along with nine other members of the hunting party, but the body was never recovered. Urtos I was grief-stricken and morose at the familys loss, even though his relationship with his eldest son had been strained by the decadent socializing in which he and his new wife indulged, and Urtos IIs perception that his father preferred to consult his young step-mother in matters of the family business rather than himself. His mental state left him distracted and careless, and he and six other animal handlers died a few days later when an owlbear escaped from an improperly secured cage in the cellars of the Field of Triumph.
The story told around the death of Ultos Phylund I was that his sullen mood over the death of his heir led to a careless mistake in the handling of an owlbear that was being transported for an exhibition. In reality, Aridarye had arranged the accidents that befell both her stepson and her husband. She wooed and manipulated Prendergast Brokengulf, a business associate of Urtos I and a friend of Urtos II, into sabotaging the lock on the owlbear cage at the time Ultos I would be nearby.