Uzalimon was the leader of a wizardly cabal who opposed the ancient lich Kokrulobis and its evil worshipers in the late 14 century DR.
Uzalimon was a tall and imposing balding man with graying hair however, his face remained relatively youthful.
Uzalimon owned a house that faced the Market Triangle in Westgate. Underneath, the home hid a passageway into a sizable underground chamber that led toward the wizards study and laboratory. The chamber was ensorcelled to appear as if it had a deep and wide water-filled moat at its center with two massive quelzarns. This magic was intimidating but harmless, as anyone could just walk past the illusions.
Uzalimon employed a single servant, a feebleminded albino dwarf named Rupert. The wizard also once had a familiar. The bat was named Henry, and its body was stuffed and lovingly displayed within Uzalimons laboratory.
Shortly before the , a cult sprang in Westgate that began worshiping the ancient and frightfully powerful lich Kokrulobis after they uncovered a massive magic crystal that served as the creatures prison. By unknown means, the cults leader discovered a way of releasing Kokrulobis from its eternal prison. Uzalimon led a small cabal of wizards with whom he worked to stop threats of similar arcane nature. The group included Amak, Susstel, Payana, and . They could not let the creature be unleashed on Toril. Uzalimon led a raid on the Kokrulobite cultists and managed to steal the lichs prison crystal. The cultists tracked the cabal to Uzalimons hidden underground laboratory, and as they attacked, an overpowered magical trap was sprung, turning the wizards home into smoldering ruins. All cultists had perished, but the leader – Maliando, who was gravely hurt and rendered amnesiac. His life was saved by a band of adventurers who entered the building to investigate the explosion.
The adventurers discovered a portal and jumped in, unknowingly allowing the cult leader to unshackle Kokrulobis via an arcane incantation. When the lich was unleashed, Uzalimon and his cabal clashed with the lich in a spell battle. It was possible that the mages died in the process, but one way or another, Kokrulobis was freed and slain, ending the lichs cult.