Uzzak-Szalzik was the shaman of Chieftain Saslicks lizardfolk tribe who resided in the Lizard Marsh circa 1372 DR.
Uzzak-Szalzik was an old and wrinkled lizardman.
The lizardman was a powerful shaman who brewed potions of frenzy and knew how to craft effigies of creatures allowing Uzzak to curse them with afflictions and even cause death.
Uzzak-Szalzik wore enchanted +1 hide armor, carried a large magical +1 wooden shield, and was armed with an enchanted +1 club. He kept a potion of speed on his person to use in case of trouble.
The shaman craved a magical knife in the likeness of the black dragon Thuraskulusk his tribe worshiped as a god. He expressed devotion to the pseudo-deity by affixing his own tooth onto the enchanted knifes leather handle.
Sometime before 1372 DR, Uzzak-Szalzik and Saslick pledged allegiance to the ancient dragon Thuraskulusk, who protected the tribe from invading outsiders and the opposing lizardfolk under Redeye. Uzzak worshiped the wyrm as a god, while the tribe erected a statue to the dragon at the villages center to be used as a temple. Sometime along the way, the shaman started feuding with an old hag who lived across the swamp from Saslicks tribe. One day, the Green Hag of Lizard Marsh was away from her den picking ripe stinkberries. The shaman sent his servant to steal the hags hairbrush, which was soon used to craft an effigy of the old witch. Using the poppet, Uzzak-Szalzik started toying with his adversary, sending small curses her way, including covering the Green Hags skin with red rashes of fire ants bites. The witch attempted to retrieve the effigy via an army of swamp toads but lizardfolk fried up the beasts and used them as snacks.
In 1372 DR, Redeye and the Green Hag sent the individual known as the Hero of Daggerford to infiltrate Saslicks tribe in a magical guise as a fellow lizardfolk. The Hero stashed one of Thuraskulusks stolen eggs in Chieftain Saslicks hut, enraging the tribes protector. While there, the Hero also stole the hags effigy, her precious hair comb, and Uzzak-Szalziks knife. The hag was delighted to have avoided death via a magical poppet and created an effigy of Uzzak-Szalzik using the lizard shamans tooth from the knifes handle. The hag placed an ironic curse on the dragon-loving shaman, cursing him with a nasty case of dragon lice. Her vengeance was to be slow and deadly.