Vajra Safahr () was the seventh Blackstaff of Waterdeep, a title she ascended to in 1479 DR when her mentor and lover, Samark Dhanzscul, was killed. She was quite young when she became the Blackstaff, and was the youngest Blackstaff in Waterdeeps history.
Vajra was diminutive, standing under , with olive skin, short black hair, and brown eyes. However, for a time, she had the ability to change her eye color, and the color switched depending on which of the six previous Blackstaffs controlled her body at any given time.
Vajra loved an intriguing arcane challenge. She was patient and known to pursue multiple plans at once, often requiring her to get her rivals to act in her best interests instead of their own. she soon learned to ignore those doubts and to dismiss the envies of those who were skeptical of her role.
She was focused on turning Waterdeep, and specifically her Blackstaff Academy, into the center of magical study in Faerûn. She would wander the libraries and laboratories of Blackstaff Tower under magical silence so as not to disturb the other wizards, save for when she made a sudden appearance to aid them in their studies. She allowed her best students access to her own personal spellbook, and was said to even allow some of them to add their own creations to it.
Though having become the Blackstaff at a young age, Vajra was a skilled wizard, even capable of casting a lone spell while entirely paralyzed, and thus incapable of performing verbal incantations or hand-gestures. The effect of this spell was to fire forth a few rays of amber-colored energy from her eyes.
Vajra Safahr and her Blackstaff|295x295px
Samark made Vajra the heir to the Blackstaff, but he was killed by Khondar and Centiv Naomal in 1479 DR before she was fully prepared to assume the role of Blackstaff. Much of the power of the Blackstaff flowed into Vajra on Samarks death, but because she hadnt undergone the proper preparation, she was left semi-conscious and delusional.
Khondar took Vajra to a secret lair beneath a house he had bought from the Open Lord Dagult Neverember and attempted to torture the secrets of the Blackstaff out of her. While traveling through the sewers on an unrelated task, Laraelra Harsard and Meloon Wardragon passed close to Khondars hideout and heard Vajras screams. Laraelra tracked down ownership of the house to Renaer Neverember and confronted him about the noises she had heard in the basement. Larealra, Meloon, Renaer, and several of his friends entered the residence and poked around in the basement, finding nothing unusual. While they were inside the house, Khondar and his son, in the guise of Samark, entered and confronted Renaer, showing him the deed to the home and kicking the group out of the residence. Laraelra knew something strange was going on, because "Samark" and Khondar were acting like old friends even though they were known to hate each other.
Renaer and friends returned through the sewers and found the secret sublevel dungeon in which Vajra was imprisoned. They rescued Vajra and took her back to the Neverember mansion. When Khondar realized that Renaer had helped Vajra to escape, he framed Renaer and associates for Vajras "murder". The City Watch tracked Renaer and crew to the Neverember estate, and the group used a secret rooftop gate to travel to an old family mansion called Varadras outside Waterdeep. Vajra was still only occasionally lucid, as the consciousnesses of previous Blackstaffs fought for control of her mind. After a few days, they returned to Waterdeep and entered Blackstaff Tower.
In the tower, she was tested by the previous Blackstaffs and was allowed to officially assume the role of Blackstaff. Vajra, now fully in control of her abilities, sent spectral hounds to stop Khondar from entering the tower. The hounds rent Khondar to shreds, and his animated skeleton was left as a warning to anyone foolish enough to attempt entry.
After Khondar was defeated, Vajra consented to Renaers plan to revive a group to replace the Moonstars with the stipulation that the group serve as her friends, not her servants.
thumb|Vajra Safahr, holding the Blackstaff, a spellbook, and wearing her arcane robes.
Later, in the Year of the Scarlet Witch, 1491 DR, Vajra was increasingly worried. The Lords of Waterdeep had just elected Laeral Silverhand as the new Open Lord, and Laerals reputation and mere presence stirred up feelings of inadequacy in Vajra. She had also underestimated the Cult of the Dragons threat and power, and Tiamats near triumph in her schemes. In an effort to prove herself, Vajra began to seek the meaning of the current years name, the reason that giants were becoming alarmingly more active in Faerûn, and what was causing many Underdark races to seek refuge in Skullport.
Samark Dhanzscul, the sixth Blackstaff, was both Vajras mentor and lover, despite his age relative to hers.
After their experiences together, Vajra asked fledgling sorcerer Laraelra Harsard to be the Blackstaffs Heir. This enabled Vajras power to be projected through any Blackstaff held by Laraelra and aided in Khondars defeat.
Around 1492 DR the Gray Hands were under the control of Vajra Safahr.
Much like Khelben before her, Vajra had some interactions with the Earthling known as Ed of the Greenwood. In these interactions she was introduced to a unique Earth pastry known as butter tarts, which Vajra found herself to be rather fond of.
Vajras father Tamik was born to Vajra Gyrfalcon (who was her namesake) and Tamik el Safahr. Vajra Gyrfalcons parents were Lara Idogyr and Arn Gyrfalcon. Laras father Gamalon Idogyr was the great-grandson of the original Blackstaff, Khelben Arunsun.
Vajras paternal aunt was Mynda Gyrfalcon-Thann.