Investigator Valeria was a hollyphant who served the god Helm in Mount Celestia. For a very brief time, she worked as a detective for the Flaming Fist of Baldurs Gate during the late 15 century DR.
Like other hollyphants, Valeria appeared as a miniature golden, flying elephant with four feathered wings that extended out from the rear of her head. She wore a small fabric cap, a single monocle over her right eye and always kept a pipe jutting out her mouth adjacent her right tusk.
Valeria had strong opinions about her fellow residents of Celestia. She believed they held no grand understanding on the nature of good nor evil, and did not believe her fellows immune to the corrupting nature of the latter.
Despite her celestial nature, Valeria was not especially wise nor courageous. She was in fact something of a hapless drunkard. Valeria tended to drown her sorrows in ale and wine especially when she was unable to properly solve a case.
Valeria always made sure to keep a spare pipe handy.
The opinionated hollyphant penned her own personal memoirs about her time in Mount Celestia, entitled Mastodonian Memoirs.
She thought her fellow hollyphant Lulu to be rather naive and foolish.
300x300px
Valeria became exceptionally concerned when the solar Zariel was dispatched to the Nine Hells to observe the status of the Blood Wars. She believed that Zariel would not be the only celestial being corrupted by its malign influence.
At some point, Valeria was dispatched to the Feywild to investigate some unknown matter. She was pulled off assignment for "disorderly drinking" and "spreading conspiracy." 
She was reassigned to the city of Baldurs Gate on the world of Toril, in the Faerûnian , to investigate the Descent of Elturel, as it was pulled down to the plane of Avernus. Over the course of a tenday, she was assigned by the local Flaming Fist authorities to investigate three cases the death of Waveservant Holli Dylford, a murderer who took the hands of their victims, and what was referred to by Baldurs Mouth as the "Ol Cholms" case.