Valin Sarnaster was a famous and powerful seer of Savras that dwelled for a time within the House of the All-Seeing Orb in Tashalar. She came to believe she was destined to ascend to divinity as the demigod of fate and supplant Savras in the Faerûnian pantheon, and achieved a unique form of undeath to achieve immortality.
Despite being undead, Valin Sarnaster appeared as she had in life thanks to a diadem that altered her appearance. She wore a set yellow robes and a had a tattoo of a third eye upon her forehead.
Her undead form lacked vital and nonvital organs, including its heart, pancreas, both kidneys, bundles of nerves and its eyes. Her organs had been transplanted into the bodies of her followers, transforming them into canopic golems.
Valin Sarnasters mind was utterly twisted by the visions she received. She had severe delusions of grandeur and believed herself to on the verge of divinity. She believed that her glimpses into the future protected her from any surprise in life or twist of fate.
She preferred to live in solitude in order to avoid any disturbances or external influences that may affect her divinations. and could only be accessed by means of a single portal.
As the creator and master of her canopic golem servants, Valin could see whatever was within their field of vision and speak through their mouths at will. Valin could see through the depictions of Savras eye that decorated the walls of her tomb as though she had truesight.
If her physical form was destroyed, Valin would reform a day later within her sarcophagus at the heart of her tomb. The only means to prevent her restoration was to destroy her crystalline heart, which was placed in the chest of her most loyal devotee.
Valins most notable possession was the book The Canopic Being. This tome outlined to her the rituals that led to her path of undeath and perceived immortality.
In addition to the ritual book, Valin was in possession of a sun blade about which she received two visions one that it would be used to kill a powerful foe, and a second that it would be used to kill her. Also among her treasures were many valuable gem stones, a blue rhomboid ioun stone, a staff of fate, and a watchful helm.
Valin was a prolific oracle and servant of Savras. Her work was known to many within his church and many people of the Realms beyond. She would study each potential future she perceived led to failure in her life, analyze their circumstances and destroy any possibility of it occurring.
While she lived along for many years, Valin was served both in life and undeath by her loyal attendant Alessia Baseer. She held Valin in highest regard and was not aware of her transformation into undeath. Alessia could not fathom that Savras oracle could commit any malevolent deed or act of evil.
Following her transformation as a mummy lord she was served by numerous canopic golems, loyal constructs formed from the mortal bodies of people that sought her visions.
At some point in her life, Valin Sarnaster received visions that directed her to undergo the process of living mummification. She recovered the tome known as The Canopic Being and utilized the rituals within to achieve immortality.
Over the course of three months during or before the , Valin drew in to her sanctum several people from across the Realms that sought the wisdom of her visions. They willingly offered up their organs to Valin, and accepted those from within her body as part of a ritual that transformed them into servile automatons. Valin explained away their disappearances to her still-living with a web of lies and half-truths.