Vansi, later known as Vansi Bloodscar was a spellscarred orog warrior and the leader of the Many-Arrows contingent in Neverwinter in the late 15 century DR.Neverwinter Campaign Setting only names her "Vansi". The Neverwinter MMORPG expands this to "Vansi Bloodscar", presumably based on her spellscar, and once each as "Vansi Spellscarred" in a Lore entry, presumably in error. This article assumes "Bloodscar" to be a title or adopted name.
Vansis spellscar manifested as bony ridges, spines, and spurs that erupted from her skin and pulsed with ravening blue fire. These displays were unpredictable, but often came in times of high emotion. Hence, she actually bristled when angered.
Vansi was ruled by her instincts and violent impulses, making her fierce and dangerous, more so even those most orcs. Balancing this, she had a strong sense of honor she never broke her word once given and was a loyal ally of those she deemed friends. She was dedicated to her role as commander. Despite this, she broke her orders from King Obould XVII to seize an opportunity and she seemed hungry for power.
Vansi was chosen by King Obould XVII to lead a Many-Arrows vanguard to Neverwinter in the late 1470s DR, following the rebuilding of the city after the eruption of Mount Hotenow. It was only meant to be an exploratory mission, with Vansi simply to report back on the state of the city. Instead, Vansi acted against Oboulds orders, believing she had a chance to seize control of Neverwinter and annex it for the kingdom of Many-Arrows. Her forces penetrated the city walls and occupied the abandoned Cloak Tower, making it their headquarters. While the Neverwintans predicted the orcs would be beaten back by the towers magical defenses or by its cloaks, Vansis orcs seemed to have had little trouble. From there, they claimed territory in the northeastern part of the River District, where the city was still ruined.
At some point, the Prophet approached Vansi and convinced her to acquire a spellscar, which she told the orc was a "blessing" of the Spellplague. This was part of a plan by the Abolethic Sovereignty to sway the orcs to their side and use them as their minions in Neverwinter.
For a time in the , Vansi and Lord Dagult Neverember held negotiations in the neutral ground of the Fallen Tower tavern, which the orcs had also claimed, and they established a truce.
thumb|right|250px|Vansi Bloodscar in her final battle.
Later that year, Vansis orcs were finally in open rebellion against Many-Arrows and at war with Neverwinter across their part of the River District. They heavily fortified the area around the Cloak Tower, building a camp and a barracks and turning the old Merchant Guild Hall into a fort attacked and killed all who trespassed upon their territory and looted whatever wealth they could find within and destroyed artworks and Neverwintan banners. The Neverwinter Guard fought to keep them contained with their own barricades, and supplemented their dwindling ranks with many adventurers. Captain Janros, Sergeant Creed, Scout Gaelen, and others dispatched these heroes to weaken and defeat Vansis orc army target her Eye of Gruumsh shamans and spellscarred orcs and slay her warband leaders Kartok Paingiver, Lurg Bloodspear, Drogthu Elfeater, and Kragmar Deepscar. Finally, they infiltrated the Cloak Tower itself. They relentlessly fought their way through the orc army and the levels of the tower and the caverns below, and slew Vansis lieutenants Makred the Foul and Throg the Ravenous, and in the towers Vault finally confronted and fought and killed Vansi Bloodscar herself.
Vansis spellscar-granted bone spurs burned all who touched her, making her dangerous in a grapple. She had some way of gifting her favored followers with similar spellscars, bestowing bristles, claws, or horns and the power to channel blue fire.
She inspired her soldiers to fight aggressively, especially when they had the advantage. She had a terrifying war cry. They were loyal to her unto death, just to see her achieve glory.
She fought with a spiked gauntlet, which helped her to grab and grapple others and burn them with her own fire, which felt like lightning shocks. She punched and slashed in a frenzy.
She also favored a flail, with which she could entangle and drag those it struck, or sweep the legs out from a couple of opponents at a time.
She wore hide armor, which was adorned with spikes of horns or tusks.
An orc named Drall professed their feelings for Vansi in 1479 DR, but she spurned Drall and left a note in their camp making her stance abundantly clear.