Variel was an employee of SaSanis Mercantile House that operated in the Crossroad Keep in the late  14 century DR.
Variel was a half-elven woman with a light skin tone, blonde hair cut in a bob, and icy blue eyes. She was slender and youthful in appearance. Variels excitement for her job was barely masked by her professional demeanor. She preferred to wear red and maroon robes.
In the , Crossroad Keep was recovered and rebuilt by the allies of Neverwinter. Soon after, two merchants, Ilfoss and Kizu, purchased a building in the reopened keep to be used as the headquarters of their trading company. They had big plans to "change the Sword Coast." They hired Variel to serve as the companys majordomo and put her in charge of the home office, as well as allowing her to do trading on the organizations behalf. Soon after she arrived at Crossroad Keep, Variel was tasked with managing the companys few shipments. Ilfoss and Kizu grew frustrated with the business being slow however, when a word game of two massive shipments was sent their way. Variel was never given any details on the nature of the shipments, and she was too happy for the business to look into it. When the shipments reached Crossroad Keep, Ilfoss insisted on accompanying one of the shipments to Neverwinter, never to return, and soon after, the second shipment and Kizu disappeared as well. With no leadership, Variel was left alone to keep the headquarters operating.
When merchant SaSani, Ilfoss and Kizus partner, took over the abandoned headquarters, Variel joined the Mercantile House as the majordomo of Crossroad Keep. She was the point of contact between the forces of Neverwinter, the Greycloaks, as well as the Church of Waukeen, organizing donations, investments, and paying for upgrades to the Keep and its allies on behalf of the Mercantile House. Variel showed initiative in promising the cleric of Waukeen named Daija to build a shrine to her goddess in Crossroad Keep in exchange for the deitys blessing. She also maintained the relationship with the gnomes of Lantan, on SaSanis behalf, and Orias, who operated a portal that connected Crossroad Keep to a secret and illegal logging camp in Samarach via the Lantan-Samarach portal. With time, she hoped to have enough coin to expand the portals function, connecting the headquarters to other locations across Toril. Another initiative of Variels was to connect SaSanis Mercantile House with her contact in Neverwinter, which could provide the Greycloaks with improved arms and armor to secure the trade routes around the keep.