| refs5e         = 
Vellynne Harpell () was a necromancer and an agent of the Arcane Brotherhood that lived in the Ten Towns during the late 15 century DR.
Throughout her entire life, Vellynne suffered from a disorder to her nervous system that caused trembling throughout her body, affecting her gait and sense of balance. Through her efforts she has not let the condition affect her spellcasting abilities.
Those that met Vellynne referred to her as callous and aloof to other. Her unsentimental demeanor was a result of her adherence to logical thinking and great ambition she possessed. She was not secretive about her goals and openly shared them with those who may be of some assistance to her.
Vellynne was capable of casting arcane spells up to the 4 level.
Perhaps most notable of Vellynnes possessions was a professor orb she referred to as Professor Skant. The old Harpell family heirloom was stolen from her by an associate of the Brotherhood named Nass Lantomir. She was fond of using magical items to supplement her spellcasting powers as she wore a pair of bracers of defense and kept a wand of magic missiles on her person.
Vellynnes spellbook was bound in black leather and its cover was imprinted with the sigil of the school of necromancy.
Vellynne was born into the illustrious Harpell family of Longsaddle that was famous among the people of the North.
She maintained a rivalry with a fellow wizard of the Arcane Brotherhood, a tiefling woman named Avarice. While the two sought the same goals in their careers they refused to work with one another and even acted in detriment to the others actions.
She was served by a cadre of six Icewind kobold minions that carried out her bidding, two of which have died and since been raised as zombies, along with a snow owl familiar.
Vellynne began her studies of arcane magic rather late in life, some time during the 1470s DR. She joined the Arcane Brotherhood some time in the next decade, at least partially as a result of her famous family name.
After the location of the lost city of Ythryn was divined by wizards of the Arcane Brotherhood, during or around the , Vellynne began a journey to the isle of Solstice in search of the Codicil of White, a tome sacred to the followers of Auril. She acted in direct competition to her rival Avarice.