Verthisathurgiesh Mehen was a dragonborn mercenary and bounty hunter of Tymanther and a member of Clan Verthisathurgiesh in the late 15 century DR and formerly a thrikominaki (clanless dragonborn).
In his youth, Mehen was a close friend of Arjhani, Uadjit, and Sepideh during their service in the Lance Defenders. Mehen and Tarhun served at the same time on the Lance Defenders when they were young. They even patrolled together, but never became friends.
Around 1450 DR, Pandjed exiled Mehen from his clan because he had a homosexual relationship with Arjhani and didnt want to marry Uadjit. Mehen went to live in the remote village of Arush Vayem, vowing to never again return to Djerad Thymar.
In the , Mehen adopted the infant tieflings Farideh and Havilar, who were left in a basket at the gate of the village of Arush Vayem. Some years later, Arjhani went to the village to try to convince Mehen to return to Djerad Thymar, but in vain. Instead, Arjhani lived with Mehen and his family for a summer, yet at the end of the summer Arjhani abandoned them without saying a word. This act earned him the enmity of Mehen and his two daughters.
In the , Havilar was in a barn attempting to summon an imp when she accidentally summoned a cambion from Malbolge named Lorcan. Her twin Farideh was tricked by Lorcan into entering into a warlock pact. When Lorcan returned to his home plane, he caused an explosion that leveled the barn and resulted in Havilar, Farideh, and Mehen being expelled from the village.
After Mehen and his family were kicked out of Arush Vayem, they began working as bounty hunters. While pursuing a bounty on a Tormite priestess on the Sword Coast, they aided a caravan under attack by orcs and befriended a young runaway Tormite acolyte named Brin, who was traveling with the caravan to Neverwinter. Brin was the target of Mehens bounty, who was attempting to return him to Cormyr. Brin convinced the trio that they should travel to Neverwinter and wait for the priestess to show up at the Tormite temple.
Later, in the , Mehen, Farideh, and Havilar returned their bounty, Constancia Crownsilver, to Suzail through the Waterdeep portal. Due to a lack of funds, only Mehen and Constancia were able to make the journey through the portal while Farideh and Havilar remained behind in Waterdeep.
In the , Mehen was working as a mercenary in Cormyr. During this time, Mehen and another dragonborn, Yrjixtilex Kallan, became close, but Mehens insecurities didnt allow their relationship to blossom. In Nightal of the same year, Mehen, along with his daughters and Brin, returned to Djerad Thymar, when he was invited by his aunt Verthisathurgiesh Anala, who wanted him to became a member of the clan once more. However, Baruz, Mehens cousin, was found dead the same day Mehen arrived in the city. Anala hired Mehen to help her uncover the assassin of her son.
As a "reward" for his services, Anala lifted Mehens exile and chose him as the candidate of Clan Verthisathurgiesh for the elections to choose the new Vanquisher, which were expected to be celebrated in the .
In the wake of the Second Sundering in the 1480s DR, Mehen and Kallan, with the help of Uadjit, helped with efforts to rescue the survivors of the exchanging of lands between Toril and Abeir. He was also one of the dragonborn who supported the decision to allow Namshitas refugees to live in Tymanther, in gratitude for Namshitas help against the Untherans.
During the first Tymanther-Unther War, Mehen, alongside Tam and Mira Zawad, Brin and Dahl Peredur, helped with the ritual to bring Nanna-Sin back to life as an immortal being.
Mehen and Kallan officially started their relationship after the war ended.
Mehen was a tall and powerfully built dragonborn, with dull-ocher scales and scars where he once had his clan piercings.
He was capable of breathing lightning.
Mehen was the son of Verthisathurgiesh Pandjed and the nephew of Anala. He was a direct descendant of Khorsaya. He was the foster father of the tiefling twins Farideh and Havilar. He had romantic relationships with Arjhani and later with Kallan.