Lolth
Viconia DeVir was a drow cleric of Shar who traveled the surface lands during the mid–14 century DR. She was a former member of House DeVir from the subterranean city of Menzoberranzan.
Viconia was very determined - she believed that only those who had the will and strength to succeed should be allowed to do so. She was not at all a proponent of charitable acts.
She could be rather cruel, especially to other elves she encountered.
Viconia was often wistful of her home in the Underdark, and had a particular appreciation for the beauty of the underground sea of Laratrak.
When she lived with the drow Viconia had four different husbands. She killed three of them for mere sport and the fourth because he had a tryst with her sister.
In the late 15 century DR, Viconia wore a unique robe of a priestess, was armed with a handmaidens mace, and defended herself with the unique tower shield called theWalking Fortress.
Viconia was a faithful priestess of Lolth for many years.Since House DeVir was destroyed in the early chapters of Homeland, which are dated to 1297 DR, the events referred to in the first Baldurs Gate game must have taken place some time beforehand. Furthermore, while Homeland has Ginafae DeVirs actions lead to the houses fall, Baldurs Gate III implies it was Viconias leaving. Taking both together, it seems likely that Viconias departure made the house look weak and out of favor with Lolth, leading to more failures and losses. Viconia was asked to ritually kill an infant in the name of Lolth and she refused. A rival killed the child in her stead and House DeVir fell out of favor with the Spider Queen. Sacrifices of wealth and servants were no use it seemed Lolth only wanted one thing from them Viconia herself.
Matron DeVir was desperate for Viconia to prostrate herself in front of Lolth, especially after a lesser house failed to destroy them after learning of their newfound weakness, but Viconia refused. She had enough of Lolths ways and believed that she would somehow still survive with her station intact. Her mother had her taken away to be sacrificed to the Spider Queen but her brother Valas, a powerful wizard, saved her and killed their enraged mother. For his actions, he was turned into a drider by Lolth. Viconia was stripped of her clerical powers and fled to the surface. She found her faith in Shar along the way.
350x350px
After being hunted by a band of elves, and a band of goblins, Viconia was saved by a Calishite caravan. Unfortunately this was done only so she could be used as a pleasure slave by its rotund owner. She quickly bent him to her will and bade the caravan go wherever she wished. However, one night, his heart gave out and the guards assumed Viconia had murdered him. She fled and thereafter eked out a persecuted existence on the Sword Coast.
As of the  she was on the run from members of the Flaming Fist in the area of Peldvale.
Later, she bought some land on the outskirts of Beregost, not with the intention of farming it, but simply as a place to stay. She remained hooded at all times, even when conversing with her neighbor and awkward friend Roran Midfallow. 
By the time she finally decided to remove her hood and reveal her heritage, it was too late Roran had already worked out that she was drow and concocted a plan of his own. He and his sons tortured her before burying her alive in a coffin. She escaped, killed Roran and his sons, then burned down his farmhouse before fleeing south to Amn. 
By Uktar of that year Viconia had begun traveling with the dwarf Pfaug. When the Council of Four sought out able bodies to fight for the Coalition, their group decided to heed the call.
After the fall of the Shining Crusade, Viconia had a few nasty run-ins on her way to Athkatla. By the , her drow heritage was recognized by a group of Amnian citizens who followed the god Beshaba. They bound Viconia, tied her to a stake in one of the citys open squares and sought to burn her alive. She was able to escape her bondage and live yet another day. 
By this time, yochlols had been dispatched by Lolth to assassinate the outcast Viconia. For a time, Viconia traveled with Abdel Adrian and his companions, including Harper Jaheira and the Rashemaar ranger Minsc. The drow priestess curiosity was peaked by the rangers animal companion Boo, whom he claimed to be a miniature giant space hamster. One night, while everyone was asleep, Viconia approached the hamster with her knife drawn, hoping to direct the creature. Boo was not asleep and pounced for her eyes, almost blinding the drow. By the morning, Viconia was long gone from the camp, leaving her traveling companions behind.
thumb|Viconias meeting with young Shadowheart.
In the late 15 century DR, Vizeran DeVir reported hearing tales of Viconias continued survival after their houses destruction, as well as of her involvement in ending the Bhaalspawn threat.
At some point, Viconia had become the Mother Superior of a Sharran enclave within Waterdeep, until Shar gave her a new mission. The Lady of Loss demanded Viconia to find a child of a Selûnite and to convert the child into a Dark Ladys champion, to prove that all light would perish and eternal darkness would prevail. Shar also demanded Viconia to slay all her followers in Waterdeep, as the goddess claimed them to be traitors. Viconia knew her followers were all loyal to her, yet she obeyed Shars command unquestionably.
With proper calculation and planning, Viconia managed to find a Selûnites child called Jenevelle Hallowleaf. She led a small group of Sharrans, captured the young girl during her rite of passage. She took the young girl and her captured parents to a newly founded Sharran enclave in Baldurs Gate called Cloister of Sombre Embrace. Viconia renamed the girl Shadowheart and twisted her memory of the capturing. Shadowhearts training was supervised by Viconia herself and she would use Shadowhearts captured parents as torture subjects for the woman now known as Shadowheart. Yet Shadowheart was not as obedient as Viconia hoped. Thus, she had to strip Jenevelles memories multiple times to re-educate the young girl.
In the , Viconia discovered the newly formed Cult of the Absolute that could potential threaten Shars goals. She decided to act before Shar could issue her orders. Later, Viconia found out about the existence of a weapon called the Astral Prism by capturing and torturing a githyanki, and about the cults fear of such weapon. She assembled a small team, that included Shadowheart, and sent them to retrieve the weapon from githyanki to counter the Cult of the Absolute.