Victoria Onufrio was a "pureblooded" human daughter of the vampire spawn named  Leon Onufrio, one of the favorite "children" of the vampire lord Cazador Szarr, who resided in the Szarr Palace of Baldurs Gate in the late 15 century DR.
Victoria was a human girl with a light skin tone, dark brown eyes, and straight light brown hair.
Her favorite toy was a stuffed owlbear.
Victoria was commanded to be brought to reside in the Szarr Palace by her fathers master after he was turned into a vampire spawn. Her well-being was one of the tools to ensure Leons position as Cazadors favored spawn – the status that allowed the human child protection from other vampires. Eventually, Victoria attracted the attention of Violet and Dalyria, fellow vampire spawn. Dalyria became obsessed with curing vampirism, believing it to be nothing more than a disease of the blood. She developed a theory that the cure was hidden in a great amount of blood from a young and strong individual, one strong enough to overwhelm vampirism. She targeted the "pureblooded" Victoria, still just a child. Unbeknownst to Dalyria, Victoria had a powerful curse placed on her by her father as protection. Shortly before the childs death, her father was trying to acquire a quality disguise from Figaro Pennygood of Facemakers Boutique to smuggle her out of the vampire lords domain. Her father also gave her a copy of Kozakuran Dictionary so the child could learn the words of Kazadors magic that sealed the palace and allowed her to escape if needed. But she was found out and returned to the palace by Dalyria. When Dalyria attempted to drain the child, the curse activated. Dalyria was found puking the cursed blood when Cazador discovered her plan and dragged her away to be punished. The childs body was left in Leon Onufrios chambers, radiating waves of deadly sapping necrotic magic.
Like her siblings, the purpose of Dalyrias existence was a powerful ritual to be performed by Cazador Szarr in the . As a result, the vampire spawns were to be destroyed, and their power would transform Cazador into a vampire ascendant. It was unknown if the ritual was successful and Dalyria was destroyed, or if the ritual never was completed, leaving Dalyria freed from her dark master, or if she was slain in the process.