Victor Dhostar was the second Faceless of the Night Masks until 1367 DR.
Victor was a tall and handsome man with brown hair and blue eyes. He dressed well but without particular elegance. As the Faceless, he wore an all-black costume with a helm of disguise that he stole from the temple of Leira during the Time of Troubles.
The primary motivation for Victor was greed he did all that was necessary in order to achieve his goals. He also killed and framed his own father for his crimes and tried to seduce Alias.
Victor was born in Westgate as the son of the noble family of Dhostar. His family was so important that his father Luer Dhostar was elected Croamarkh, the informal leader of the city. But Victor wanted more he soon understood that he could gain more money through illegal means and so he joined the Night Masks, the true power of Westgate. His avarice permitted him to rise through the ranks quickly and in the end he replaced the Faceless as leader of the guild.
In 1367 DR, he started a complex plot to find the lost treasure of Westgates last king, Verovan. Meanwhile, his father feared the Night Masks activities and hired the heroes Alias and Dragonbait to investigate the guild. The heroes friend Olive Ruskettle joined the party and Victor, posing as a devoted son, said he wanted to help the heroes. This was a ruse by Victor because Alias, as a magical construct, was immune to all magical spying, so he needed to be close. Afterward, Victor killed and framed his father as the Faceless, permitting Alias to discover the dead body. With his father dead, Victor was quickly nominated Acting Croamarkh. As the last part of his plan, Victor ordered an army of iron golems to attack a masquerade ball attended by himself and all the city leaders. At the same time, he discovered the key to Verovans treasure while revealing his identity to Alias.
In his mind, with all the councilors dead and he having found the lost treasure, Victor thought he would be crowned king of the city. However, Alias and her friends managed to defeat the golems and followed Victor, who headed to the treasure place. Soon Victor and the heroes entered the extra-dimensional space where Verovan had put his treasure. Here, Victor and Alias fought and the heroine finally overcame Victor, who fell to his death.