Vikhrumn Coll, also known as 100 Gold, was a deranged beholder who worked as a low-rent hit man in the Underdark in the 14 century DR.
Vikhrumn Coll was a fairly typical beholder in form, possessed of a  spherical body and gray, pebbly skin. He had a distinctive large scar (claimed to be from fighting an aboleth) that cut diagonally from near an eyestalk on top of his body, across his central eye, and down to his underside, winning him the hated nickname "Scarhead". He was usually seen chomping a cigar and wearing an oversized fedora, and levitated a trenchcoat, gloves, and shoes below his body to imitate a humanoid form, a disguise he believed was perfect.
Vikhrumn Coll was once an ideal beholder servant of a hive mother, but after being injured he began to suffer from a rare mania. He no longer hated and feared all non-beholderkin, but instead came to identify with and imitate them, thinking of himself as a humanoid. As he circulated in the criminal elements of Underdark criminal society, he took up the personality of a thuggish goon and became crude, crass, arrogant, and generally offensive to be around. He also believed that his disguise of a hat and coat gave him a perfect cover that blended in with humanoid society, and would escalate to disintegration if pressed on it.
100 Gold had all the abilities of a typical beholder, and used his disintegrate eye ray to "rub out" targets. His mind was quite sharp and cunning, though his ability to come to wise judgments and his social skills were extremely limited. He was surprisingly good at gambling and trailing targets, and was naturally quite good at intimidating people.
Aside from his fedora, trenchcoat, gloves, and shoes, 100 Gold possessed little of interest besides his cigars, which were so noxious nearby people could be incapacitated if they were exposed to the smoke.
Vikhrumn Coll didnt really have any friends besides Brikhalna Ipprszhen and was typically avoided by other criminals for his foul personality and odor, though his quick lethality meant they they appeased and accommodated him if he demanded their company. He found employment with crime lords such as Felyndiira Shinarrvha, who appreciated his services even if they didnt like him.
thumb|280px|100 Gold meeting up with the gang at the Think Easy.
Vikhrumn Coll was once the servant of a hive mother in one of the Underdarks largest beholder cities, said to be the apple of his masters eyes. He suffered a near-lethal head wound during a war against another city, but managed to survive with a gruesome scar and a debilitating brain injury. Unable to meet even the loose standards of sanity found in a beholder hive, the hive mother exiled him to wander the Underdark, where he was found by the enterprising and friendly mind flayer Brikhalna Ipprszhen. Brikhalna took him into the ranks of hired thugs and killers, and from that point on the beholder performed hits for 100 gold pieces each—earning him his new name.