| refs5e         = 
Vizeran DeVir was an exiled drow archmage during the late 15 century DR.
A scion of House DeVir, Vizeran studied the arcane arts at the same time as Gromph Baenre. However, Gromph discovered Vizerans true devotion to the Elder Elemental Eye and arranged for him to be exposed as non-believer of Lolth, leading to his disgrace and exile. Ironically, this spared Vizeran from the downfall of House DeVir at the hands of House DoUrden.
In his exile, he became a great archmage, building his tower of Araj and plotting his revenge.
Centuries before the late 15 century DR, Vizeran DeVir crafted the weapons Ironfang, Drown, Windvane, and Tinderstrike for the Elemental Evil cults in the Fane of the Eye of Tyar-Besil.
From afar, Vizeran acted as the shadowy patron of the Council of Spiders and from their number he gained the assistance of Grin Ousstyl.
Circa 1486 DR, Vizeran correctly deduced that Lolth had manipulated Gromph as a pawn to unleash the demon lords throughout the Underdark in order to gain absolute power in the Abyss. The demon lords in the Realms used faerzress to spread their madness. Vizeran devised a plan to send the demon lords back.
Therefore, at Gravenhollow, he approached an expedition led by some adventurers, whod been hired by Bruenor Battlehammer to investigate the threat of the demon lords, and offered his help. In truth, his plot aimed to gather all the demon lords back at their original place of summoning—Menzoberranzan itself—before they were sent back to the Abyss.
Following an attempt to claim the Maze Engine for himself, he was banished to the Abyss by the warlock Makos.
Vizerans main objective was revenge against both Gromph and Lolth, the first for what he did to him, and the second for the dominion she maintained over all drow. His plans and goals were entirely self-serving and he would sacrifice anyone without hesitation to further his schemes.
Vizeran interacted only with two beings his death slaad Kleve and his apprentice Grin Ousstyl, but he did not trust them.