Vorlanth was a Fellthane among the Warlock Knights of Vaasa, and controlled a domain that included the Delhalls mine in western Vaasa as of the late 15 century DR.
He was an impassive man who wore ironfell plate armor and concealed his face beneath a helmet, except when speaking to someone. As a Knight-Fellthane, he held absolute power over his own fiefdom and maintained his own standing army.
He was evil and scheming, and therefore did not trust anyone. He tended to assume that adventurers were either spies for his enemies
While he swore fealty to the Ironfell Council, Vorlanths true loyalties lay with a secret Banite faction within the Warlock Knights, and he worked to form an alliance with the fellow Banite Council of Blades in Mulmaster while trying to avoid attracting the attention of his superiors.
His retinue included a force of heavily-armored soldiers, several nishaadhri warlocks, and a cleric of Bane.
He was served by Omog, the foreman of the Delhalls, who drove the dwarven slaves who worked the mines.
He had a rivalry with Angath, a fellow Warlock Knight of a lower rank. Vorlanth regarded Angath as a fool, and had warned him to stay out of his dealings.
During the , an earthquake struck Vorlanths domain and collapsed the entrance to the Delhalls mines. He quickly called for his slaves to reopen the mine, but when they did, they discovered new passages containing strange crystals and a haunting, alluring song. This discovery greatly excited Vorlanth, who began to research the strange phenomenon. He quickly determined that the song was in fact a prayer to Auril, and he additionally found ancient texts detailing the vault beneath the mines and that the Ice Queen Iyraclea had hid something within. While he was able to learn everything necessary to find and open the vault, he was not able to determine what exactly was inside it he presumed it was some manner of powerful artifact that might allow him to control the monsters and undead of the Great Glacier.
After sending word to the Council of Blades&mdashhoping that the promise of acquiring a powerful artifact would help to solidify an alliance&mdashVorlanth recruited a group of evil mercenaries to enter the Delhalls and acquire it. This group was led by Lysara, a priestess of Auril, and included the rogue Kallista, the warlock Kathra, the ranger Quarfein, and the warlord Bharash. However, Vorlanth feared that these adventurers planned to betray him, and so he gave each member only partial instructions for how to reach and enter the vault, thus ensuring that none of them could individually betray him.
Within a few tendays, the mercenaries had entered and vanished within the Delhalls. Around the same time, a Banite entourage from the Moonsea heeded Vorlanths invitation and arrived in Vaasa.