Vrengarl Hardtoil was a dwarf from the Great Rift who was active in Innarlith on the Lake of Steam in the mid–14 century DR.
He wasnt used to living on the surface. When he went to build the winery at Berrywilde, he didnt realize that his skin was going to peel after staying outside in the sun and getting burned. 
He was a capable stonemason and he was able to fight with a hammer.
His cousin Hrothgar Deepcarver accompanied him when the two of them came to Innarlith. They were both stonecutters and worked in construction in the city-state.
Ivar Devorast, a Cormyrean engineer, was a friend of him and his cousin. They both had come to know him through working together in construction projects. Devorast called Vrengarl "Vrengie", which Vrengarl normally would allow Hrothgar to call him, but not others.
In 1361 DR, Vrengarl and his cousin Hrothgar were working to cut stone for the construction of the Nagaflow Keep. Ivar Devorast was initially in charge of the project and he admired the work of the two cousins, finding it better than the work of the other laborers on the site.
In 1364 DR, the two cousins were living in a dilapidated basement in the first quarter of Innarlith. Vrengarl was growing mushrooms in a closet of the basement to eat. Devorast came to meet them in their basement and when they realized he was completely broke, they invited him to join them in a new work project to construct a vineyard at Berrywilde, the country estate of Senator Inthelph.
The three of them went to work to build the vineyard at Berrywilde. Phyrea, the daughter of Inthelph, was at the estate at the time and she became infatuated with Ivar Devorast. She was staying in the country house several miles from the construction site and she made a request to the foreman that Ivar Devorast personally come and raise the wall around the house. Devorast sent Vrengarl to do the work in his place, which infuriated Phyrea. She felt she had been shamed. In anger, Phyrea then got information from Vrengarl about the location of the foremans tent. Unknown to Vrengarl, Phyrea then went to stealthily murder the foreman in the night using a magical sword that turned the foreman into a ghast.