Wenefir was a cleric in the Church of Cyric in Innarlith on the Lake of Steam during the mid–14 century DR. He was a henchman of Pristoleph, who became Ransar of Innarlith.
He was considered effeminate and soft.
As a cleric, he possessed the ability to cast divine spells that had been granted to him by his deity. 
He possessed an enchanted ring of feather falling made by a local mage named Thadat that allowed the wearer to fall long distances without being harmed.
Marek Rymüt sold him a magical mace of Netherese origin that could damage with either frost or fire.
Wenefir was a cleric of Cyric and ran a hidden temple underground beneath the city. It contained monsters that served him.
Wenefir and Pristoleph had known each other since they were boys on the impoverished streets of the fourth quarter of Innarlith. Pristoleph advanced in Innarlith society to become a very wealthy senator and Wenefir served as Pristolephs trusted henchman.
Wenefir distrusted Marek Rymüt, a clandestine Red Wizard in Innarlith who had become an ally of Pristoleph. Wenefir saw him as being a very good ally, as Pristoleph had succeeded in gaining control of all trade in and out of the city with Mareks help, but he nevertheless saw Marek as a potential threat. Wenefir counseled Pristoleph to give his support to the church of Cyric and get their assistance rather than the help of the Red Wizards in order to carry out his ambitions to become Ransar of Innarlith. Marek didnt trust Wenefir either and lied to Wenefir about the fact that Marek had been the one who was responsible for Senator Willem Korvans disappearance as well as Mareks turning of the young senator into an undead servant.
Phyrea, the daughter of Senator Inthelph, was secretly a thief who got work from Wenefir. Wenefir stopped giving her new assignments after she deliberately destroyed a prized egg that she stole from Ransar Osorkon rather than deliver it to him.
Wenefir began as part of a gang of boys headed by a thug named Mandalax that robbed houses. In the , Mandalax wanted Pristoleph to join his gang, but Pristoleph refused and so the gang hunted him down. During the hunt, Wenefir betrayed Mandalax to help Pristoleph and attacked him with a knife. Wenefir castrated Mandalax as revenge for something that Wenefir had earlier suffered while doing work for Mandalax in climbing down chimneys.
By 1334 DR, Wenefir was assisting Pristoleph in running a brothel at Firesteap Citadel with the prostitute Nyla.
In the , Wenefir hired the thief Phyrea to break into the Palace of Many Spires and steal a precious egg. Phyrea retrieved the egg, but decided to destroy it for her own amusement rather than to give it to Wenefir, whom she lied to and said that she had destroyed it by accident.
By now a priest, Wenefir performed a marriage ceremony in Cyrics name that wed Senator Willem Korvan to Phyrea in the . 
Pristoleph had ambitions to become Ransar of Innarlith and he began building an army at Firesteap Citadel in the  for the purpose of invading the city and taking over the government. Wenefir assisted him with his efforts and after Pristolephs victory in the , Wenefir was named Seneschal by the new Ransar.
Wenefir went to investigate the destruction of zombies that were being used as laborers within the city and found priestesses of Chauntea were behind it. He killed two of them and left their bodies in the Lake of Steam. 
Wenefir served Pristoleph but he disliked the favur that Pristoleph showed to Ivar Devorast, a Cormyrean engineer who had begun the canal project and whom Pristoleph put in charge of it again after he had been earlier dismissed from his post by Ransar Salatis. He sensed that the Senate of Innarlith was turning against Pristoleph when he did this and the forces arrayed against him were too great for him to handle. He advised Pristoleph to discard Devorast and keep alliances with Devorasts enemies. Pristoleph, however, didnt listen to Wenefirs advice about his situation and dismissed Wenefir from his position as seneschal. 
After Devorast used smokepowder bombs to blow up the canal in the , which had been fitted with a magic portal using Thayan magic against the original plans, Pristoleph put him under arrest but didnt execute him. The senate, under the influence of the Red Wizard Marek Rymüt, openly turned against Pristoleph and violence erupted in the city between Pristolephs faction and the senates faction. Wenefir abandoned his loyalty to Pristoleph and joined with the senates faction to conspire with them to bring down Pristoleph. 
Wenefir went to Pristoleph and persuaded him to agree to a peace deal between the two sides. The agreement they made was that Pristoleph would step down as Ransar, but Phyrea, who had wedded Pristoleph after divorcing Willem, along with Devorast would both first be allowed to leave the city peacefully. Pristoleph then went to the Chamber of Law and Civility to give his resignation speech to the senators, but during the it he departed from the prepared speech that was agreed upon by both sides to accuse the senate of being puppets to Marek Rymüt, and he then used his control over flames to burn the audience. Wenefir got out of the room immediately and found Marek on the street after he left the building. Marek then proceeded to kill Wenefir with a magical lightning bolt.