Whimberton was the chamberlain of Castle Lutwill and "the ever-glorious and -victorious Baron Lutwill."
Whimberton was a small man with black hair and a thin mustache. By the time of his death in 1366 DR, he was starting to go bald, and the tips of his hairs were turning white. He had a weak but smooth voice, showing little change in tone when angry.
Whimberton dressed in a black robe. He was trained in the magic arts, being skilled enough to cast a holding spell.
Whimberton had possession of a magical item with which he could call lightning down on whomever he wished. The sphere was filled with a many-colored flame but glowed with a blue light. It had a limited number of charges but could be repowered by placing it atop a weathercock during a thunderstorm.
In the summer of the , a bard, Fyadros, and his Wonder Horse Zizzy, arrived at the castle, where they easily convinced Whimberton to let them stay the night for entertainment. These visitors were in fact spies. Star Protective Services&mdashled by Zaranda Star&mdashand a group of villagers from the region around Castle Lutwill stormed the castle later that night, having been let into the castle by the disguised bard. (This was in response to Baron Lutwill having doubled the villagers taxes.)
During the battle, Whimberton used his magic lightning sphere to slay invaders in the courtyard, from the safety of the penthouse at the top of the castles keep. (Fiora, the daughter of Osbard, hetman of Tweyar, was killed by one of these lightning bolts.)
When Zaranda reached the penthouse and began to battle Baron Lutwill, Whimberton held her with his magic, leaving her to Lutwill to deal with in whichever way he desired, before returning to the window to continue to use his sphere. However, Zarandas charge and apprentice, Chenowyn, arrived, and surrounded Whimberton with magical shimmering lights. Trying to keep the tiny objects off himself, Whimberton flailed about and stumbled backwards, where he crashed through one of the windows. The magical lightning sphere shattered on the ground below, as did Whimbertons body.