Aldaeguth, better known as Winestab, was a human thief of Waterdeep in the mid–14 century DR. He was formerly nicknamed Oldy-gut, as recalled by some older citizens, but any family name he had was unknown to most.
In the mid-1360s DR, Winestab was a sneak-thief who prowled the alleys, sewers, and roofs of Waterdeep under cover of night.
He was relatively well known in the city, being a regular at taverns like the Dripping Dagger, the Midnight Sun, and the Thirsty Throat. In particular, he was a known associate of Kaeroven "Smiles" Yuluth, proprietor of the infamous Thirsty Sailor tavern in the Dock Ward of Waterdeep. He spied and ran errands for Kaeroven. He typically listened in on patrons in the taverns upper rooms, even from the rooftop.
Few, if anyone, knew who Winestab really was and where he came from before becoming a thief in Waterdeep.
In the mid-1360s DR, Winestab was hired by the Waterdhavian mage Dhylmorre to help him follow and rob adventurers carrying Maskar Wandss wand of wonders. Both were ready to betray and abandon the other to save their own skins.
He was small and face, and considered to be unpleasant, shifty, and rat-like.
He had a nasty temper and held a grudge for a long time, making him a dangerous and dogged enemy to have. He had no loyalty to anyone.
He wore studded leather armor and wielded a short sword, dagger, and short bow.
Winestab had a knack for escaping traps set for him, so people supposed he possessed some magic items hidden down his boots. In fact, his boots themselves were magic items—they were elven boots.
In fact, Winestabs real secret power as a thief was his wild talent for psionics. He was capable of the catfall and displacement powers of the psychometabolism discipline and contact and ESP of the telepathy discipline. With these, he read peoples minds to learn where they concealed their valuables and he was able to evade those who chased him.
He was also proficient in appraising valuables, donning disguises, making forgeries, and lip-reading.