Winefiddle was a cleric of Tymora in Towers of Good Fortune, Suzail circa 1357 DR.
He was a pasty-skinned rotund man with thinning brown hair and puffy red cheeks and lively brown eyes. There was a scar on his belly where he was once stabbed with a goblins spear.
Winefiddle was a kind and empathetic man. He gladly helped people in need even if they arrived at his door during late hours, and tried to stab him... He loved adventuring but liked comfort and safety even more.
Like other clerics of his faith, he refused to accept donations and payments for his services, asking for the money, gems, and trinkets to be deposited into the poor box at the temples entrance. It was a common belief that taking money and valuables for Tymoras aid was in bad luck.
Winefiddle was a competent cleric of Tymora. He routinely performed services of the temple for guests and adventurers, including using and selling magical scrolls.
His holy symbol, a plain silver disk, could be found around his neck.
Being a retired adventurer, Winefiddle was close with his comrades in arms. King Azoun Obarskyr IV and the royal advisor Vangerdahast Aeiulvana could often be found in the company of their old adventuring buddy. And the famous sage Dimswart was his best friend and a regular drinking buddy.
Winefiddle was once a member of the group known as the Kings Men that included king Azoun Obarskyr IV. Most of their adventurers remained unrecorded and the curate preferred it to stay that way.
In 1357 DR Alias of Westgate sought help with the mysterious azure magical tattoo, she woke up with one day. The Towers of Good Fortune was the only temple or shrine that was available at the time, due to the late evening time of the day, and the shrine of Tyr being filled with hurt and dead adventurers after their encounter with Mistinarperadnacles Hai Draco. She was greeted by Winefiddle who agreed to cast remove curse on her sword arm. The spell triggered powerful magical defenses on Alias, causing her to lose control of her body and attempt to murder the curate. By Tymoras luck, Winefiddle managed to tumble to safety, accidentally knocking the warrior woman out, but not before she stabbed him in the ribs with a knife. After Alias came to her senses, kind Winefiddle advised searching for a famous sages help - Lord Dimswarts. Shortly after she left, her soon-to-be friend Akabar Bel Akash visited Winefiddle as well.
Just a few days later Winefiddle was one of the guests at the wedding between his friend Dimswarts daughter and Frefford Wyvernspur. During the wedding Alias glyphs were triggered once again causing her to attack the grooms cousin Giogioni Wyvernspur, ruining the wedding.