Winn Kardzen was a half-elf necromancer and a member of the Cult of the Dragon, leading the Glarondan cell in Aglarond in the late 14 century DR.
Covertly, Winn led the Dragon Cult cell based in the small village of Glarondar. He was persuading the fang dragon Nartheling, who made his lair on Umbergoth Peak, to accept transformation into a dracolich. Venerating Nartheling, Winn and his cultists periodically made expeditions up Umbergoth Peak to deliver information on affairs in the village and on local caravans and patrols the fang dragon could attack and take treasure from.
Kardzen was also laying plans for a joint attack on the Glarondar fortress. To this end, he was raising undead from the Umber Marshes to fake an attack from Thay to draw away patrols from the Watchwall, thus allowing Nartheling to tear apart Glarondar untroubled by its defenders.
In the early 1370s DR, Winn was on the verge of sealing the deal with Nartheling, but he needed a phylactery worthy of the dragons essence and so sought out a relic of the right fame and nature. He more than succeeded, locating one of the horns of the fallen red dragon Shargrailar, the first and most powerful dracolich. It had been turned into a drinking vessel, the Grail of Shargrailar, by lining it with platinum and encrusting it with jewels, which did not harm its value.
thumb|right|The Grail of Shargrailar sought after by Winn Kardzen.
After his agents obtained the Grail and shipped it to Velprintalar, circa 1372 DR, Winn hired the merchant Tulin Farweather to transport it to his village, so as not to attract unwanted attention. However, it was lost en route—when the caravan carrying the horn made camp near a stone circle in the Yuirwood, the undead star elf Mourel Duskwalker emerged from a nearby portal to the Night Realm, stole the Grail for his own purposes, and retreated with it back to his demiplane, all in secret. Not knowing what had happened, Tulin would try to hire adventurers to find the lost horn. Kardzen and the Cult would also try to search for and recover the lost horn, but the Grails fate is unknown.