Wulbren Bongle was the leader of the deep gnome from the Clan Ironhand that lived in Underdark during the late 15 century DR.
Wulbren placed a gravestone for his father, Antunio Bongle, at the Lower City Graveyard of Baldurs Gate.
It is not known about Wulbrens relations with his mother, but circa 1492 DR Barcus wanted to write a letter to her trying to find out information about his whereabouts.
Wulbren was a childhood friend of Barcus Wroot. Later Barcus left the Underdark for the surface city of Baldurs Gate. When Wulbren was living in the Decrepit Village, he wrote a diary, from which we know that he was asking himself if he will ever see Barcus again.
He was familiar with a famous smith from Rivington, Gyldro Angleiron, who accommodated the Ironhand Gnomes in his cellar and kept their location secret.
300px|Barcus holding Wulbrens amulet, which was recovered in the Lower City.
Wulbren once had an amulet, which was lost when he got captured by duergars. It was subsequently discovered by Barcus in the Lower City of Baldurs Gate, prompting him to embark on a journey to find and help his friend.
Wulbren had a hammer, which he was deprived of when he was imprisoned in the Moonrise Towers.
Wulbren was a descendant of Wolverforce Bongle, who according to the book Ironhand Gnomes Our Grievances once spoke to Gaerdal Ironhand. As his relatives, Wulbren was obsessed with the hatred towards the Gondians who, as he thought, once stole the technologies of Clan Ironhand and later even started to serve lord Enver Gortash, whom Wulbren considered a tyrant.
His clan once helped Sarevok Anchev and was exiled from Baldurs Gate. He engaged in a relentless struggle to repair his clans reputation, especially when confronted by Gondian critics.
Around the , Wulbren and the other deep gnomes of the Ironhand Clan were surveying the areas around the Ebonlake and conducted 42 expeditions. The main purpose was the work with runepowder. That year the Decrepit Village, which served as a base for their surveys, was pillaged by the duergars of the Clan Flameshade serving the cultists of the Absolute. He later was transferred to the Moonrise Towers prison where he was detained with Nimble and Nickels.
The fate of the prisoners of the Cult of the Absolute remains unknown, but some rumors say that if Wulbren didnt die, he continued his fight against lord Gortash and the Gondians, mainly through covert activities against the Steel Watch and the invention of the runepowder bomb in the Angleirons Cellar.