Dahaunarch
Wulver Xornnag was the Lord of House Xornnag and a member of the Council of Six of Amn in the mid-14 century DR.
He found success by always being a step ahead of his rivals and seeming innocent when they suffered misfortunes, and he was a master in framing others for his failures. However, he was contemptuous of superstitious magic, and so did not account for magic disrupting his schemes.
thumb|180px|Wulver and Thayze did not survive their confrontation.
Wulver became the head of the Xornnag family in the  and secretly took the Council position of Dahaunarch in the , before rising to the position of Pommarch in the .
After the Golden Legions exploration of Maztica in 1361 DR was made public, Wulver secretly financed his own fleet to the continent via a number of allied mercantile houses and holding companies. His ultimate goal was to establish his own conclave of allies, seize control of Maztican trade and settlements and New Amn for himself, and moreover split from the Council of Six and reveals its members identifies to the highest bidders. The Namarch, Curkon Gheldieg, uncovered this and shared it with the three highest-ranked councilors over several months. Finally, when it became overwhelming, it was raised in council. Wulver naturally denied it and claimed hed been framed. But suspicion also fell on Curkon for his own activities in Maztican trade. In fact, Meisarch Thayze Selemchant had been whispering rumors about secret deals by both men over the past year. However, the accusations went nowhere for months. Under pressure, Wulver decided to secretly ally with Thayze to kill Curkon, but to lay the blame on Thayze, kill him too, and thereby be rid of both rivals.
Finally, in Marpenoth of the , the first step of the plan worked well when in a private meeting Wulver and Thayze had their guards and assassins attack and Curkon was killed, though it was costly battle for their own forces. However, Thayzes guards managed to defeat four of Xornnags assassins. After his forces subdued Wulver, Thayze incautiously drank eight-times-poisoned wine that had been prepared by Wulver for the meeting and even smugly toasted him. With his last breaths, however, Thayze used his secret magic to destroy the laughing Pommarch and most of the guards of both sides with fireballs. In the aftermath, all three councilors and 120 guards were dead from various blades, spells, and toxins, and the other councilors could not be sure whod killed who, though Thayze was exposed post mortem as a Cowled Wizard. The crisis culminated in Rhinnom Dannihyr of the Shadow Thieves revealing himself as the ultimate orchestrator of the events and blackmailed the survivors into making him Iltarch.