Wyll Ravengard, nicknamed the Blade of Frontiers, was a warlock and noble-born monster hunter who lived in Baldurs Gate during the late 15 century DR.
Wyll had dark skin, black braided hair and a very thin pencil beard. One of his eyes was dark brown, whereas the other was devoid of color (in fact, a sending stone used as a prosthetic). He wore a black jerkin with golden patterns running down the center and the sides.
Wyll loved clowns, especially the fan-favorite Dribbles from the Circus of the Last Days that occasionally visited Baldurs Gate.
He preferred to fight with a single enchanted rapier.
385x385px
Wyll was the only son of Ulder Ravengard, a key figure in Baldurs Gate, named after his great-uncle. Although he was raised among the nobles of the city, he spent more time in sword training with his father than partying with his noble peers. In his fathers view, Wyll would take place his position in the Flaming Fist, then become the Duke and the champion of the city and so uphold the name of Ravengard.
When Wyll was 17, Ulder Ravenguard had recently been named as Grand Duke of Baldurs Gate. Ten days after his father left for Elturel to settle a dispute, Wyll heard a whisper while sleeping that demanded he go to Dusthawk Hill alone. Upon arrival, Wyll found that Dragon Cultists were trying to summon Tiamat to the city. Desperate yet powerless to stop them, Wyll was approached by the cambion Mizora, who offered to grant him power to destroy the cult, but in exchange for his own soul. Wyll agreed and forged his warlock pact with Mizora. Together, they wiped out the cultists and stopped Tiamat being unleashed upon the city. During the battle, Wylls right eye was damaged, so Mizora granted him the sending stone as a replacement. But after Ulder Ravenguard returned from Elturel, he found no witness or evidence of the cult, only a smirking devil standing beside his son. Wyll couldnt tell his father the truth because the pact forbade him to do so. In great disappointment, Ulder Ravenguard cast Wyll out from Baldurs Gate.
After being cast out from the city, Wyll traveled to Cloakwood and witnessed a goblin warband attacking a nearby village. After killing the goblins and helping a boy of the village, Wyll swore to protect the people of the Sword Coast from evils and dangers. Thereafter, Wyll lived as a folk hero and monster slayer, slaying monsters and devils under Mizoras command. He said his most perilous quarry was a female minotaur, a beast that gave him the scar on his face. Due to his heroic deeds as a monster hunter, he earned the title of "Blade of Frontier" among Sword Coast folk.
In the , Wyll received a demand from Mizora to hunt a tiefling named Karlach who served under Zariel in Avernus. After finding his target in the first layer of the Nine Hells, Wyll passed through the wasteland, chasing after Karlach on a nautiloid that suddenly appeared. But before he could reach her, Wyll was captured by the mind flayers and implanted with a tadpole for ceremorphosis.
After escaping Avernus and surviving the nautiloids crash, Wyll continued his hunt for Karlach and encountered other tadpole-implanted survivors from the same nautiloid.