Lord Wyllyck Caldwell was a very important patriar in Baldurian society and was the most likely candidate to become a duke following Abdel Adrians death.
Wyllyck was the aging noble patriarch of the Caldwell family of Baldurs Gate. The Caldwells were one of the oldest families in the Gate, and under Wyllycks leadership, sustained their great wealth. Wyllyck, however, did not hoard his wealth, and instead distributed a lot of it to charity. Because of this and several other reasons, Wyllyck Caldwell was very well regarded, not just in the Upper City, but city-wide. He even invested into businesses in the Lower City, giving him great repute in the area. In addition to general charitable works, he donated very generously to the Church of Last Hope, Shrine of the Suffering, Watchful Shield, and the High House of Wonders.
Wyllyck was said to be very modest, talented, and philanthropic. He was more interested in studying, discussing alchemy, and conducting charity work, and thus declined invitations to noble galas. He believed most other patriars were too concerned with their own pleasure in order to care about the Lower and Outer City. Caldwell was against the Guild, though that did not stop him from looking into issues within the Outer City.
In addition to his manor, he owned two caravels, Sweetseed and Abelea.
Caldwell could often by found in the Wide, studying alongside his fellow alchemists.
The Caldwell patriarch was liked all over Baldurs Gate. Many persons and organizations were impressed with Wyllyck, including Duke Torlin Silvershield, the Parliament of Peers, and even his political rival, Ulder Ravengard.
Wyllyck had an intelligent wife, Abelea Caldwell, who was skilled at finance and business management.
The only heir of the Dlusker family, Guinever Dlusker, married into Wyllycks family.
In the early-mid 15 century DR, Wyllycks pear and apple orchards became infected with a rotting disease. The skilled alchemist searched for a cure, though the orchards naturally recovered. During his investigation, he discovered a new way to treat wood, whereby timber was safeguarded from water. Wyllycks new treatment method was even better than any sort of polish or paint. His wife, Abelea, made use of her husbands great discovery, causing the family to become even richer and more affluent.
In 1482 DR, the Parliament of Peers planned on electing Wyllyck Calwell to become a duke and thus part of the Council of Four. Wyllyck had very strong support from existing dukes, and citizens from all around Baldurs Gate. However, Caldwell never became duke.