Xalliana was a tiefling wizard and a member of the Harpers of the Sword Coast North in the late 15 century DR.
She had dark-red skin, golden-hued eyes, purple hair, and straight horns.
She was a partner of the fellow Harper known as Seven Toes.
In the , Xalliana was due to meet Seven Toes at the Broken Crown inn on the High Road north of Neverwinter. She did not make it—her ship was smashed on the rocks off Raven Cliff Beach after the Blackdagger Bandits extinguished the warning beacons so they could loot the stricken and wrecked ships. Xalliana survived and made it ashore, taking shelter in a cave in the cliffs, but shed lost her equipment and sealed orders.
A day or so later, Seven Toes grew worried and asked an adventurer sent by Sergeant Alphonse Knox of Neverwinter to look for her body, giving a description for the purpose. Not finding her, the adventurer lit the beacons as a Harper signal to find Xalliana. She explained what had happened and asked them to recover her orders, equipment, and supplies from the Blackdaggers salvage, and to slay some of the salvagers while they were at it.
Xallianas orders pertained to Blackdagger leader Traven Blackdagger and his four intermediaries. She located Marion Hexbane, who oversaw the wrecking and salvaging operation, had the adventurer find her in a sea cave close by and kill her. From Marions journal and map, Xalliana had leads on the other Blackdagger leaders. In particular, she learned that Krag Foultooth was extorting a dwarf merchant named Melkhor Goldseeker and sent the adventurer to investigate. Later, she passed on a message through Yates for the adventurer to meet Garl Gnarlclaw to continue the fight, and Xallian met with Garl herself to let him know. Meanwhile, Xalliana discovered the Red Wizard necromancer Kallos Tams scheme to take control of the undead army in the Cragmire Crypts, and went alone to confront them. She did not return. Ultimately, a band of adventurers were able to enter Cragmire Crypts and kill the bandits leaders, Traven Blackdagger and Kallos Tam. They didnt encounter Xalliana, but she resurfaced later, having helped Garl to move a siege tower close to Blackdagger Keep, allowing adventurers to storm the keep and slay Malus Blackdagger before the bandit army could attack Neverwinter.