century DR|other uses|Xanathar
Zushaxx was a Xanathar, the leader of the Xanathars Thieves Guild in Waterdeep, throughout much of the late 15 century DR.
Zushaxx was paranoid and megalomaniacal. It was also more ambitious and impulsive than many previous Xanathars, and hungered for knowledge, information, and wealth.
Zushaxx was at least the fifteenth Xanathar the corpses of thirteen previous Xanathars remained in its lair and at least one previous Xanathar had peacefully retired from the position.
Sometime circa 1466 DR, Zushaxx, a relatively young beholder, took over as the Xanathar from Izulktur, the previous Xanathar, who was born of the same beholder cluster. With the support of the drow servant Kaldir, Zushaxx quickly established itself as the new Xanathar. It spent the first year as the guild leader poring over the library amassed by its predecessors, which fueled a desire to amass more information.
By 1479 DR, it had established itself as one of the more ambitious Xanathars, and it was considering whether to break with the longstanding tradition of keeping its identity as a beholder a secret, as all of its predecessors had done.
In 1491 DR, the Xanathar, in cahoots with the mind flayer Suthool and the agent of Asmodeus Belvarra Bowmantle, supported the plots of the Masked Lord Braethan Cazondur in order to distract the City Watch and the Open Lords from its operation in Skullport and to gain power in order to expel the Zhentarim from Waterdeep.
The next year, Zushaxx started a street war in Waterdeep between its guild and the Zhentarim over possession of the Stone of Golorr, which was understood to be the key to finding the lost wealth embezzled from Waterdeep by Dagult Neverember.
Xanathar wore a ring of invisibility, a ring of mind shielding, and a ring of resistance on its eyestalks.
Some believed that the Xanathar possessed a magical object, carried by one of its henchmen, through which it could project its eye rays and that it had put numerous Lords of Waterdeep under its control, using its Charm Ray in this way.