| refs5e         = 
Xander was an adventurer who hailed from Norland in the Moonshae Isles. Growing up with Helene and Aiden, he joined them on their journey to join the White Sails company of Mintarn during the 15 century DR.
Xander was very individualistic. He had a strong, personal moral code that was not always fully understood by others. He idealized the life of an adventurer and eagerly sought out places beyond his home.
thumb|left|200px|Xander and his pet blink dog Kerym.
According to his grandmother, Xander was descended from House Kendrick.
Xander was closest with Helene and Aiden and considered all his friends as family.He would always mix up the names of Kerrin and Karrin, and became especially close with the latter elf twin.
Later in life, Xander had a pet blink dog named Kerym.
thumb|right|350px|Xander (far right) and his friends beginning their adventuring career.
While on a sailing ship en route to Mintarn, Xander, Helene and Aiden met other future companions. They befriended the twins Karrin and Kerrin, along with the dragonborn known as Rayonde. Together the group joined the White Sails company, eventually joining the crew of Captain Nycto aboard the Hesperornis.
Some time before the , the Hesperornis took on several passengers including the wizened sage Shandeir en route for Elturel. Just as the ship docked at the isle of Mintarn it was destroyed by the red dragon Hoondarrh. Xander and his friends helped the islands residents get to safety, along with their dear Helene. Xander warned Helene against traveling back to their home on Norland, and was right to do so as it was been devastated as well.
Xander continued with a life at seas, joining the crew of a ship captained by Aiden. One day while docked at Caer Moray on the isle of Moray, the crew was enlisted to help defend the nearby moonwell from lycanthropes of the Black Blood tribe. Xander was slashed across the face by one of the beasts and received a scar that would remain with him for years. At the moonwell, a dark figure and the corrupted solar Zariel manipulated Helene, and transferred the spirit of the dead dragon Skadaurak into the body of Rayonde. After these tragedies, Xander and his companions each went their separate ways in life, despite his best efforts to keep them together.
thumb|left|175px|Xander in his prime.
When the possessed-Rayonde conquered Moray and threatened all the Moonshaes, Solvigant came to Xander to reunite their group. The collected group rallied armies from across the Moonshaes, and confronted Rayonde-Skadaurak, his fomorian guardians and his amassed army at Moray. Just as the heroes were seemingly overwhelmed by their opponents, they were rescued by Aiden and his crew of goblins, and taken to safety aboard the Blue Glaucus submarine.
thumb|right|250px|Xander fighting Rayonde on Skadaurak Island.
With their entire group completely reunited for the first time in years, they set out for Skadaurak Island, and began the fight against Skadauraks army. When Aiden challenged Rayonde by himself, the possessed dragonborn incinerated his former friend with his dragon breath. Wholly distraught by the loss of his brother, Xander pleaded for Helene to get help. Xander found the twins injured and made sure Solivigant took them to safety. Xander attacked the aspect of Asmodeus that appeared on the isle, but was corrupted as a servant of the fiend instead and forced to attack Helene. His fate after that was unknown.