Xardorok Sunblight () was the head of the duergar Sunblight clan and warlord of the fortress that shared their name. He led a campaign of conquest against the Ten Towns and all of Icewind Dale during the late 15 century DR.
Xardorok Sunblight had a notably gray beard. Despite his imposing status as warlord of his own clan, he appeared at times to be covered in soot.
He was a devout follower of Deep Duerra, the duergar goddess of conquest. 
Xardorok was an extremely paranoid individual and a strategically unimaginative ruler. He held no true skill for conquest, but rather received all his his inspiration from his supernatural patron. 
He possessed an unhealthy obsession with chardalyn and would not abide the knowledge of anyone else acquiring it for themselves. It was believed his lust for the evil-infused metal was greater than the love he held for his own family.
thumb|right|350px|An enlarged Xardorok facing off against a pair of intruders in Sunblight fortress.
Xardorok had innate spellcasting abilities typical among warlocks of the Realms. He could discharge blasts of eldritch energy at will and unleash the flames of the Hells against anyone that harmed him.
Once or several times each day, Xardorok could magically increase or diminish his size. He could enlarge himself from the size of a typical duergar to that of an imposing ogre, or reverse the change as he so wished.
Xardorok Sunblights regalia included chainmail armor, a right-handed gauntlet, and crown, each of which were crafted from chardalyn. His crown held special significance to his familys history. Of its nine spires, seven were broken off and two remained intact. These distinctions represented the seven children he had lost along with the two that still lived.
While holding court in Sunblight fortress, Xardorok sat upon an massive throne carved from chardalyn.
Within his personal quarters he had a  chardalyn statuette of his patron deity Deep Duerra, along with a platinum hookah embedded with a single star sapphire, among other riches.
Xardorok encouraged his loyal followers to carefully watch and spy upon one another, in order to rout out any conspiracies that could potentially challenge his rule.
The Sunblight clan history was one of tragedy and loss. Over the years Xardorok married three duergar women, Thizrun, Yrraska, and Marral, and with them sired nine children. Nearly all of his family died either by his hand or under otherwise unfortunate circumstances. Xardorok killed his first wife Thizrun and their son Ulthoon in retaliation for a botched assassination attempt and unsuccessful coup. Yrrska and the two daughters she had with Xardorok died in an tragic cave-in. Marral and four of the Sunblight children died during an failed raid of a mind flayer colony.
By the time he raised the fortress of Sunblight, Xardorok had two remaining sons, Durth and Nildar. Likely due to the failed patricide carried out by his eldest son, Xardorok kept them busy with missions that were far removed from his court in Sunblight.
He had what be believed was a trusted advisor in Klondorn, a devout priest of Deep Duerra. The duergar priest was in fact a barbed devil installed in a position of influence by Xardoroks warlock patron.
During his ascent to power, Xardorok initiated a courtship with Grandolpha Muzgardt of the Muzgardt clan of Gracklstugh. He even going so far as to invite her and her entourage to Sunblight fortress. They formed a tenuous alliance between their two clans, albeit one that was rife with mistrust and suspicion.
At some point during the late 15 century DR, Xardorok was was visited by who he believed was Deep Duerra, but was in fact Asmodeus, Lord of the Nine Hells. The malevolent god convinced Xardorok to raise an army and take dominion over the Ten Towns and all of Icewind Dale. He led his people up from their home in the Underdark to forge their own kingdom upon the surface world.
When the goddess Auril let loose the Everlasting Rime over Icewind Dale in the , Xardorok and the Sunblight dwarves received exactly the boon they needed to act. The perpetual darkness granted them the opportunity to raise the fortress of Sunblight within the shadows of the Spine of the World mountains.
In order to take dominion over Icewind Dale, Xardorok brought up a horde of monstrous creatures from the Underdark and began amassing chardalyn from all across the region. He planned to use the cursed substance construct of an enormous, chardalyn dragon. 
When the time was right, Xardorok Sunblight let loose the massive flying construct on a path of destruction across the Ten Towns, along a predetermined flight path.