Xavarathimius, known only as The Everlasting Wyrm, was a male great wyrm green dragon dracolich dwelling in the Sharawood in the Shaar, a place known also as the Drakewood.
He was bound by the Witches of Rashemen to guard the demon lord Eltabs prison beneath the Sharawood, following the liberation of Rashemen from demon rule in the .
Then, in the , the Myrkulyte crusaders from the Castle of Alhanar assaulted and destroyed the Everlasting Wyrm and looted his hoard. Discovering Eltab in his prison, they released the demon lord in exchange for 99 years of service, and went on to become death knights and establish the theocracy of Eltabranar. Yet even after Eltab was gone, the Everlasting Wyrm reformed and remained.
Thereafter, once every hundred years, the Knights of the Undying Dragon, as they were now known, continued to ride out of Alhanar Castle to slay the Everlasting Wyrm and a number of his many still-living offspring. The death knights succeeded and returned with the dragons hoard each time, yet the Everlasting Wyrm always reformed over a decade or two and rebuilt its hoard and its schemes. They were still doing this into the 14 century DR and seemed set to do it forever.
But, following the Spellplague in 1385 DR, much of Alhanar Castle was destroyed and Xavarathimius finally struck back. In a violent attack on the ruined castle, he sent his minions to wipe out the knights. Thereafter, they occupied the site and guarded their masters stolen hoard.
By 1479 DR, the Everlasting Wyrm had thrown his lot in with the Beastlands, and was considered to have the support and power needed to unite its monstrous denizens under his reign.
Lairing in the deepest and darkest woods, Xavarathimius formulated wicked schemes and assembled minions to do his bidding, often making slaves of any local nomads who stumbled across him. Otherwise, he tried to stay unnoticed and unobserved by the outside world.
In the late 14 century DR, the Everlasting Wyrm was known in Shaar legend only as a terrifying undead monster that haunted the Sharawood and stole bodies and transformed them into zombie slaves.