wife)Driella Frostmantle (6 wife)
Yarin Frostmantle was king of Damara in the 15th century DR. He was considered a tyrannical usurper and a despot who failed to respond adequately to the many threats faced by Damara. 
Yarin was the richest man in Damara in the latter half of the 15 century DR. He was described as sniveling and rat-faced, and with a notable hunch in his posture. He was going bald as of the late 1480s DR and was widely believed to be infertile.
He was quick to anger and eager to blame others for his failings. He was also very paranoid, operating multiple spy networks and maintaining a private mercenary army to deal with vassals he saw as disloyal or upstart.
King Frostmantle was seen as a tyrant by his subjects, about whom he cared very little. Given his temper and penchant for executing those who displeased him, he filled his court with sycophants.
He had a poor relationship with the Monastery of the Yellow Rose, although his Minister of Records was a monk from the Yellow Rose. 
He was opposed by Spysong, a Damaran intelligence network founded by Gareth Dragonsbane, which sought to undermine his rule and have him executed for his role in ending the Dragonsbane dynasty.
Dreylil Andrus served as Frostmantles Captain of the Court Guard. Red Mazzie served as his Court Wizard. His seventh wife was Queen Concettina Delcasio.
Yarin Frostmantle was born a noble in the Kingdom of Bloodstone. He bought lots of land and became the richest man in the kingdom, and it was said that this wealth was how he became king in the 1460s DR. It was rumored that Frostmantle had played a role in the assassination of Queen Brianne Dragonsbane in 1459 DR, and it was an open secret that he had assassinated his immediate predecessor, King Murtil Dragonsbane, thus ending the line of Dragonsbane.
The Kingdom of Bloodstone ceased to exist after the Warlock Knights of Vaasa sacked Bloodstone City in 1469 DR, leaving Frostmantle as king of Damara only.
As of 1479 DR, Frostmantle had reestablished Helgabal as the capital city of Damara. His primary focus aside from fortifying Bloodstone Pass against possible incursions from the Warlock Knights was defending his legitimacy as king. He was known to send his private mercenary army to kill his own subordinates whom he suspected of doubting his right to rule, leading many to worry that Damara would be underprepared if the Warlock Knights ever attacked.
In 1484 DR he married his seventh wife, a young noblewoman from Aglarond named Concettina. Frostmantle had divorced his first four wives because of claims of barrenness. The fifth and sixth wives had been executed by beheading in the palace gardens the fifth wife for treason (it was claimed she had taken substances to prevent pregnancy) and the sixth, Driella, for murder (it was rumored she had given birth to a son whom she murdered in bed). Statues of each of the wives were located in the palace gardens the statues of the fifth and sixth wives were headless. By 1487 DR, Frostmantle still had no heirs.
Yarin Frostmantle was assassinated sometime in the late 1480s DR by Artemis Entreri, although his advisors attempted to cover it up as heart failure.The events of Hero appear to conclude in 1487 DR, however Yarin Frostmantle is still described as king of Damara in the Sword Coast Adventurers Guide, understood to be set in 1489 DR.