Prince Yder Tanthul was one of the twelve Princes of Shade and the right hand of his older brother Prince Rivalen Tanthul. While he served the High Prince and empire of Netheril as its general,
Yder had gleaming blue-grey eyes the color of steel. His protruding fangs became visisble when he smiled.
He had a notably deep voice that would resonate in the minds of others.
The prince had a cunning mind for tactics and was wholly dedicated to any mission he undertook. He was not one to be influenced by flattery.
Yders personal sigil is a stylized silver greatsword on a gray field. The pommel of this sword is a replica of the symbol of Shar a black disk with a deep purple border.
Using the power bestowed upon him from Shar, Yder could enter into the dreams of others. During these psychic intrusions he could communicate with his victim or spy upon their recent memories.
Upon the return of Thultanthar to the Realms, Yder served as a divine champion dedicated to Shar and commanded the Night Guards of the Hall of Shadows.
By the late 15 century DR, Yder had become a general of the armies of thereturned empire of Netheril. He also performed duties as the chief templar in Rivalens Dome of Night.
Unlike his elder brother, Rivalen, Yder has no quarrel with his fathers hand, Hadrhune. He would simply like the will of his deity guide the Shadovar rather than Hadrhunes.
Yder was briefly served by Ajloon, his short-lived second-in-command of the Night Guard. Despite his subordinates shortcomings, the Prince of Shade respected Aldjoon did his best to impart his wisdon and guidance onto him.
During his final years Yders relationship with his father Telamont Tanthul began to fracture. The repeated failures endured by the Netheril empire along with the deaths of Yders brother Rivalen took its toll on father and son. Yder resented the fact Telamont did not truly dedicate himself to the worship of Shar.
Like the rest of his brothers, Yder was born in Netheril some time before Karsuss Folly. He trained as a soldier among the Shadovar army and reached the rank of captain before joining Shars service as Rivalens right hand man. After Karsuss Folly in the , Yder spent much of his life on the Plane of Shadow where he was transformed into a Shade like his brothers and others of his kin.
When the Princes of Shade returned to Toril on Nightal 30 in the , Yder appeared with his brothers Brennus and Makorak to a tribe of Bedine people at the Shoal of Thirst in Anauroch. The trio sought to win over the allegiance of the nomadic tribespeople, but were taken for malevolent djinn and otherwise avoided.
In the , Yder helped to rebuild Sakkors.
One mission Yder undertook was the infiltration of Shadowdale in the , during which he managed to possess Lord Mourngrym Amcathra using a shadow simulacrum. This allowed the Army of Darkhope to take control of the Dale with little resistance.
Yder played an important role in the  invasion of Cormyr during the late 15 century DR, but was unsuccessful in claiming its capital of Suzail. During the events of the Second Sundering, Telamont Tanthul refocused his efforts on the identification and apprehension of the various chosen of the gods. 
While in Cormyr in the , Yder was tasked by his father Telamont to hunt down two of these chosen Joelle Emmeline the Heartwarder of Sune, and Malik el Sami, Cyrics resurrected Seraph of Lies. The pair were in possession of a powerful artifact desired by Shar, the Eye of Gruumsh. Yders soldiers drove them out of the beleagured city of Marsember and into the company of two other chosen fleeing the city, the Helmite champion Kleef Kenric, and the noble-born devotee of Siamorphe Arietta Seasilver.
Yder slew Ariettas father Farnig and captured her mother Elira aboard the familys ship at sea. This bold maneuver drew the four chosen out from hiding and forced them to commit to a path that Yder could easily follow. The Shadovar general penetrated the mind of the guardsman Kenric, granting him insight during the pursuit across the lands of Turmish in the Vilhon Reach and eventually the Chondalwood. 
Having disappointed High Prince Tanthul by letting the chosen flee Cormyr, Yder was forced to relinquish the Night Guard back to Thultanthar. Fearing his father would take his frustration out on the Hall of Shadows, Yder rebuked his Telamonts order and directed Ajloon to lead the Night Guard in protection of the temple by any means necessary.
Yder and his remaining Night Guard finally confronted the four chosen at Sadrachs Spire in the Underchasm. Despite the princes best efforts, they were unable to retrieve the Eye of Gruumsh and Yder was struck down by Kenric, who gained renewed power as his god Helm returned to the Realms.