Yrre the Sparkstruck was an eccentric gnome inventor from the Underdark who famously crafted numerous lightning-themed weapons and pieces of armor during or before the late 15 century DR.
Yrre was thoroughly obsessed with the power of lightning storms, and included some element of electricity or lightning in all their creations.
Among Yrres first inventions was the Speedy Lightfeet, a pair of boots that allowed the wearer to accumulate an electric charge within  their body, by making even the smallest of movements. Yrres weapons often imbued the wielder with the same sort of lightning charge ― which itself bolstered their physical prowess, agility and overall might. The charge could also be used to offer the user greater protection from physical harm, including electric shock itself, and even a form of retaliation against their foes.
Yrre was regularly shocked and electrocuted by many of their own inventions. To protected themself and others nearby, Yrre crafted the Jolty Vest suit of armor.
Yrres favorite weapon was the Joltshooter, a bow with giant spikes that extended out from its shaft. They cared little for bows but really enjoyed the giant spikes. Other inventions of theirs included the Sparkle Hands gloves, the Real Sparky Sparkwall shield, and the Protecty Sparkswall set of clothes, among others.
Yrres life changed dramatically when they met the Mystran cleric Lenore De Hurst and romance sparked anew. They crafted numerous magical items together, including the Sparkswall ring. While apart however, Lenore and Yrre each entered into something of a rut in their individual lives.
The first time Yrre left their home in the Underdark they encountered a terrific storm. It was on that occasion that Yrre became obsessed with the might of lightning and electricity from then on, they were dedicated to recreating that terrible power in all their inventions.
On one occasion, Yrre went to visit Lenore in her tower within the Underdark with, intent on gifting her the magical staff Spellsparkler. They found her tower completely uninhabited, save for some of her abandoned arcane creations and experiments.
Over time, several of Yrres creations had been scattered across the Sword Coast and Underdark. A handful of them came into the possession of Councilor Florrick of Baldurs Gate.