Ysele the Cat was a businesswoman and sorceress who lived in Skullport during the 14 century DR.
She was said to have sharp, almost feline features, which contributed to her nickname.
Ysele was a persuasive and manipulative woman, confident in her abilities and unafraid to use sex appeal to get what she wanted.
Ysele had rings of protection, invisibility and human influence (usually on a silver chain around her neck), and wore boots of elvenkind. She made use of a wand of paralyzation and a rod of passage, and also possessed a crystal ball and a talisman of the spheres.
Along with Aurin the Generous, Chantos Graybeard, and Lord Ithvar Wordkiller, she was one of four co-owners of Hired Horrors, a business in Skullport which sold deepspawn to wealthy clients all across Toril. She loathed the deepspawn themselves, but loved that she had become fabulously wealthy from the enterprise.
Ysele cared little for others, and schemed to eliminate her business partners in order to seize control of Hired Horrors for herself. She conspired alongside Ithvar to drive a wedge between Aurin and Chantos, but fully intended to elimiate all three one-by-one.
Ysele hailed from Tethyr, where her human father taught her magic. In adolescence, she grew bored of her fathers caution and convinced him to hire a more talented wizard as her instructor, but soon after, the tutor expelled Ysele for stealing some spellbooks. After that, Ysele contacted a lower planes creature and organized her fathers assassination. After her fathers death, she sold all his holdings to a rival of her father in a prearranged deal and left the country.
Circa 1350 DR, she hired some thugs to attack her in Skullport so that she could kill them in order to attract the attention of Aurin and Chantos, who (as expected) offered her a chance to buy-in to their new business idea of breeding deepspawn. However, Ysele grew frustrated that she could not manipulate Aurin and Chantos because of their mutual friendship. At last, in , with the help of Ithvar, Ysele succeeded in creating a rift between Aurin and Chantos and began making progress with her plan to become the only owner of the Hired Horrors. she secretly acquired a talisman of the sphere to take control of it for herself.
By mid&ndash, Ysele was no longer affiliated with Hired Horrors, although she remained active in Skullport.