Yssra Brackrel was a strange half-elf wizard that lived in Baldurs Gate.
The young wizard was very skinny, short, and had sparkling eyes. Despite being a stylist, she herself had very messy black hair. Her hands and face were covered in pigment stains, and she gave off a salty charcoal-like scent.
To say Yssra was odd was an understatement. Residents described her as being a "queer one" with "wild" features, though her landlord, Entharl Danthelon, assured others that she was a harmless alchemist. She continuously muttered to herself, and worked into the night, as evidenced by her light being on at very late times. Brackrel disdained the patriars of Baldurs Gate, and was even known to speak out against them. If anyone found her suspicious or interrupted her work, she would not forget their acts.
She was known to hum to herself, though these melodies were interrupted with wild yells of "Yes!" and "No!".
Yssra was a skilled and talented alchemist, and had the knowledge of how to construct smokepowder bombs. She was exceptional at bluffing. If in combat, she was able to cast spells such as mirror image and flaming sphere, or if necessary, smack out with her quarterstaff.
Strange items, usually those of an alchemical nature, filled her shelves.
Yssra had a diverse group of skills and talents. Though she often worked as a wizard for hire (often for the Guild), she was also a stylist, and this occupation helped maintain her guise. As such, she openly advertised her more mundane works via a sign outside of her residence. Though she didnt store anything that might point her to the Guild or evil activities, she would not allow anyone to search her home without a writ of search.
Brackrel was known by a few people of importance around the Gate. Ulder Ravengard knew of her alchemy skills, and wished to use her to discredit Wyllyck Caldwell, a patriar of high repute who was likely to become the fourth duke of Baldurs Gate.
In 1482 DR, Brackrel lived in Danthelons Dancing Axes attic, which also served as the third and final floor. That year, Torlin Silvershield identified three agents who could have been working for the guild, and the "sorceress" Brackrel was among them.