Avernus
Yurgir was an orthon mercenary fought in the Blood War alongside other devils of the Nine Hells, against the demons of the Abyss. He unfortunately became trapped on the world of Toril on the Prime Material plane for much of the 15 century of the Faerûnian calendar.
Like other orthons, Yurgir was mighty in stature and presence. He had red skin that was hardened over with black scales along his forearms. He had three pairs of twisted horns that extended from the crown and rear of his head.
Yurgir wore plated leg armor and a single shoulder guard that appeared to be crafted from infernal iron, along with a cap and loin cloth that were adorned with engraved, humanoid skulls.
Yurgir was supremely confident in his abilities as a warrior and mercenary. He appeared to have attained a significant reputation among the devils of the Nine Hells. The orthon also admired other capable warriors and respected those play fair in a competitive way.  Despite this, Yurgir remained exceptionally frustrated with his circumstances following a bargain he made that went terribly wrong, and he would revenge on those wrong him badly. 
thumb|Yurgir and 410x410px
The consumate warrior of the Nine Hells, Yurgir possessed numerous abilities that gave him the edge in mortal combat. He could turn himself invisbile at will and strike out at his foes with an infernal dagger coated with potent poison. 
Yurgir utilized a number of grenades and other projectiles that released blasts of concussive or pure explosive energy.
He was resistant to all forms of physical harm, was protected from both fire and extreme cold, and could not be easily poisoned himself.
Yurgir wielded powerful weapons of war that originated from the Lower Planes, including a hellfire hand crossbow and orthonic handbombs.
He accumulated a small hoard of recovered items, most of which he passed on to one of his merrogon followers. He also stashed away an umbral gem near his bed of skulls.
Like other orthons, Yurgir was a soldier and mercenary through and through. He did not question the orders he received, but merely followed them out and received payment.
Yurgirs unwanted sojourn on Toril was the result of the infernal contract he with the cambion named Raphael. Due to the fiends manipulations, Yurgir was unable to fulfill his end of the bargain and remained unable to leave The Prime.
Yurgir led a contingent of merregons, who followed his every command, even if it were to kill each of their own kind. He also had a pet displacer beast named Nessa.
Yurgir had an unpleasant relationship with the devil Raphael. they did not see eye to eye even before the contract. Yurgir expressed strong hatred towards Rapahel using contract to trap him for a century and the contract song installed in his head.
At some point in his life, Yurgir once killed a warlord from the continent of Kara-Tur. The mighty orthon then proceeded to his mistresses and his children and crafted a delightful codpiece from the mans skull.
On another occasion, he met a dusk hag who envisioned some future reality where Yurgir spared her life.
Some time circa the late 14 century DR, Yurgir signed a contract with Raphael to kill all the Dark Justiciars of Shar within her Gauntlet. Unfortunately, the justiciar named Lyrthindor utilized one of Raphaels own writings to transform himself into an entire colony of rats. This act of depraved subterfuge prevented Yurgir from completing his charge. 
Unable to complete his contract, Yurgir remained trapped within Shars Gauntlet, his only other options were to die on the Prime or forfeit his freedom and become Raphaels eternal servant. It appeared that Raphael purposefully allowed Lyrthindor to learn the means by which to escape Yurgirs wrath.
While Yurgir did not remember the exact specifics, it appears Raphael had intended to pursue to the aasimar Aylin, who was trapped in an area of the Shadowfell accessible by Shars Gauntlet.