Yvandre Rillyn was an expert duelist, ambitious politician, and the head of the Rillyn noble family of Baldurs Gate during the late 15 century DR. She was largely responsible for her familys return to glory among the citys aristocracy.
Yvandre was a strong-willed woman that always maintained a professional demeanor, even if she could be a bit curt at times. She wore her emotions on her sleeve, and always spoke her mind when confronted with the lazy and feckless nobles found among the Baldurian upper class.
To Yvandre, the Rillyn family and its legacy was the guiding force behind the actions she took in life. She proved a strong partner to anyone whose goals aligned with those of her family, and an unforgiving foe to anyone that stood in their way. Yvandre was optimistic that they could restore their name and once again be considered among the most well-regarded of the Baldurian patriar families.
She was an exceptionally skilled fighter with a sword, owing her expertise in part to her years as a mercenary of the Flaming Fist.
Yvandre had an exceptional mind for business and ran a very successful school for martial combat.
Throughout her life she maintained friendships with many of her former fellow Flaming Fist soldiers.
She was also friends with the copper dragon Hastarglyrr, a noble dragon that watched over her and the Rillyn family.
In her youth, Yvandre could not stand the stifling lifestyle that accompanied a young noblewoman and joined the Flaming Fist. Her military career saw her serve many years with the Fist along with several other prominent mercenary companies.
During the early 1480s DR, Yvandres uncle Machil was believed to have squandered the Rillyn family fortune on frivolities. In truth, he spent the riches on the hopes that a wish could cure him of the deadly curse placed upon him.
Regardless of the circumstances, Yvandre felt compelled to aid her family during their time of need. She returned to the city and worked tirelessly to fill the familys coffers and restore their name among the Baldurian elite. 
Yvandre found personal and professional success for herself as well. By the , the resolute noblewoman emerged as a promising figure in the political circles of Baldurs Gate.