Zaaman Rul, called the Prince of Good Fire Creatures, the Flame of Purity, and the Resilient Ember, was the good archomental of fire in the Elemental Plane of Fire, and thus the archenemy of his evil counterpart Imix. His symbols were a longsword of fire and an orange Z.
He took the form of a ,  humanoid with red skin that resembled burning coal, long black hair, and black eyes that held kindness despite his fearsome visage.
He was honorable and courageously stood against evil, though many considered him naïve and inexperienced as the newest of the archomentals. He was thoughtful and diplomatic, but had little patience for people who lacked tact, honesty, or etiquette, and was as much a creature of action as of communication. The Resilient Ember was enthusiastic in everything he did.
As an archomental, Zaaman Rul possessed a long list of powers and abilities. He possessed darkvision, as much good as it did a being of fire, and naturally spoke the languages of Celestial and Ignan, and could use a tongues-like ability to speak to and understand any creature intelligent enough to speak. He himself was a genius with great knowledge of diplomacy, healing, magic, and matters of the planes he was fast, agile, and perceptive, and a terrifyingly skilled warrior.
Zaaman Rul was immune to damage caused by fire and heat, obviously, as well as poison, sleep-inducing effects, paralyzation, petrification, and stunning. He was resistant to both spells and physical damage- and could not even be injured by weapons with less than a moderately strong enchantment he also healed quickly, and any metal weapon that struck him risked melting on contact. However, he was vulnerable to damage caused by water or ice.
By his touch alone, Zaaman Rul set any and all combustible objects and materials on fire, and any creature that came too close to him in combat risked catching on fire, as did any creature he struck with his sword. Moreover, Zaaman Rul could extinguish any nonmagical, open flames within  of him, and could dispel magical fire with a touch.
Like other archomentals, Zaaman Rul could shapechange into any creature of his elemental subtype at will, could innately command any fire elementals within  of him, and could use the spell-like abilities detect good, detect evil, greater dispel magic, greater teleport, see invisibility, suggestion, and telekinesis at will. In a more fiery vein, he could also use as spell-like abilities burning hands, heat metal, pyrotechnics, and scorching ray at will fireball, quickened scorching ray, flame arrows, and wall of fire thrice each day and flame strike once per day.
And lastly, he could summon and dismiss his sword at will, and once each day could summon up to three elder fire elementals, thirty azer, twelve fire mephits, five rasts, one fire monolith, two fire elementals, or four firetails.
Zaaman Ruls most well-known possession was the longsword of flame that had become his symbol.
After his great defeat, he enlisted a clan of azer to build him a fortress, the Hidden Heart. This fortress, made of basalt and fyrite, was secured behind powerful wards against divination magic and a moat of sanctified fire capable of burning any evil creatures, even those otherwise immune.
Zaaman Rul spent his time watching and learning, rebuilding his forces, gathering alliances and helping potential allies, and planning for when he next fought to bring down Imix.
It was widely believed among the azer and salamanders, among other elemental creatures, that Zaamun Rul was the bastard son of no other than Imix (the veracity of which, only the two of them knew). A lesser known, and exceptionally shocking, rumor elaborated on this, claiming he was also the son of his predecessor Bristia Pel- a most unlikely union given Imix and Bristia Pels enmity. Nonetheless, the good air archomental Chan took the possibility seriously and sought to secretly watch over Zaaman Rul as a surrogate mother.
Of all the good archomental, Zaaman Rul was forced to contend with the most enemies not only did his archenemy Imix largely dominate the Plane of Fire, but he also faced opposition from the efreeti of the City of Brass, and forays of minions of Mephistopheles (archdevil and lord of hellfire) and Gazra (supposed archomental of Ash) into his plane.
Zaaman Rul remained in contact with the phoenix that had healed him after his first, disastrous attempt to take down Imix, and it had also promised him its aid, including a large army of phoeras and phoelarchs, when he next confronted the Prince of Evil Fire. He had also allied with the great brass dragon Ronothere, who had ties to the Court of Stars the azer king Amaimon and the celestial paragon Raziel.
Zaaman Rul was served directly by various elemental fire creatures, but given the scarcity of goodly fire creatures on his home plane, he accepted as servitors and allies various other creatures. Through his alliance with Ronothere, several squads of monadic devas and a host of firre and asuras had entered his service. Fire genasi, fire weirds, and sun giants were also known to swear to him, and on the Material plane, a military order of sollux called the Sun Brothers had pledged their loyalty to the Flame of Purity.
His dual role as both a crusading rebel prince and freedom fighter against the tyrannical Imix was an inspiration to others across the planes as they fought for their own causes.
Zaaman Rul was said to have once been a (mostly) ordinary fire elemental, who rose to power and spent years gathering a great army of azer, firetails, fire mephits, fire elementals, and renegade efreet with which to challenge Imix. He gathered his forces on the Plain of Burnt Dreams, where it was said a great artifact of good was located, and attacked his sire when the time was right. The battle was long and fierce, but ultimately the older, smarter Imix prevailed, destroying much of the goodly forces and grievously wounding Zaaman Rul. The artifact, if it existed, was lost beneath the waves of the Burning Sea.
Zaaman Rul, defeated and left for dead, contemplated giving up and surrendering the Plane of Fire to Imix. But a phoenix appeared to him, restored his body and mind, and gave him newfound hope. Though he was forced to go into hiding, he learned from his defeat and began planning Imixs downfall anew.