Zahyra Bardson-Ithal was the first vizera of the kingdom of Tethyr.
Zahyra was a powerful wizard, whose talents in the Art wowed all of the clans of Tethyr.
Zahyra was renowned in Tethyr for the creation of a pair of magical artifacts, a crystal ball called the Eye of Zahyra and a magic shield called the Shield of Silvam. The latter was designed specially to reflect the eyebeams of beholders. The former allowed Zahyra both to observe happenings on the battlefield through the crystal window enveloped by the shield and to cast magical spells in aid through that same crystal "eye". In this way, Zahyra could participated directly in a foreign battle from the safety of the capital.
Besides her service as magical advisor to the king, her creation of powerful magic items, and her participation in the kings battles through the Eye of Zahyra, the vizera also thoroughly recorded the history of the era for future generations.
Zahyra was from Clan Bardson until she married into Clan Ithal by becoming the wife of the cousin of King Silvam Ithal.
Zahyra was a tutor to Princess Rhynda, Silvams granddaughter, who would become Tethyrs second vizera.
Zahyra became vizera in the , during the buildup to the Eye Tyrant Wars, when King Silvam created the position. (He was in dire need for magical aid in the fight against the beholders.) The political move was strongly opposed by Queen-Mother Saraala, for reasons unknown. However, it was widely supported by the clans.
Before the king and his armies left for war, she presented him with the Shield of Silvam, which she had created with the aid of her mentor. He is known to have carried it into battle, and Zahyra used her Eye of Zahyra to closely monitor and participate in the events of the war.
Zahyra Ithal died in . Though supported by the clans at the time of her appointment, she was spoken of poorly by the time of her death. She was succeed by Princess Rhynda, whom the clans also distrusted.
A collection of 52 diaries of Zahyras were published posthumously in  under the title, Annals of First Vizera Zahyra.
Around , the tomb of the First Vizera was discovered in the Starspire Mountains,
King Haedrak used the historical accounts of Vizera Zahyra as one of his primary sources for his Historia Tethyra.
Many suspected that King Silvam and his vizera were in love with each other, despite each being married to others, but no proof of these rumors was ever found.