angel of vengeance
Zaol was an insane outcast angel of vengeance who took up residence in the castle of the Ice Queen Iyraclea during the 15 century DR.
After coming into possession of a powerful and manipulative artifact that once belonged to Zhengyi the Witch-King, Zaol was warped from an angel of vengeance into an angel of torment. If his existence was put in grave danger, he could painfully assume the powers of his former self.
As an angel of torment, he appeared as a cloaked figure wrapped in chains with the artifact&mdasha shard of glowing obsidian&mdashhanging around his neck on a thin cord. The artifact rested against his flesh, and could burn him if it wished. From under his hooded cloak, all that was visible were his wicked claws and his glowing eyes weeping tears of acid. 
As an angel of vengeance, he was akin to a pillar of fire, and his cloak rippled with elemental energy. 
Zaol was insane and brooding, and he constantly writhed in torment and agony. In battle, he fought to the death.
In his true form as an angel of vengeance, Zaol possessed a suit of plate armor and a pair of powerfully enchanted longswords an aegis blade and a piercing songblade.
After colonizing Iyraclea’s castle, Zaol had been twisted into a mindless guardian of both the Zhengyian artifact and the Great Glacier.
Sometime after Iyraclea’s death in the , Zaol became a protector for the artifact and took up watch over the Ice Queens former domain.
By the , the artifact sensed the impending outbreak of the Abyssal Plague, and was eager to return to Castle Perilous to be part of it. It began to broadcast a magical signal to call powerful, evil individuals to find and prove themselves worthy of claiming it by slaying its guardians, including Zaol. Those who pursued this signal included a group of frost giants from Kultaakarr and a group of Banite Warlock Knights, although it also attracted the attention of a goodly cleric of Amaunator named Yazeth Cobb, who recruited adventurers to investigate.