Zara was a Tethyrian warrior and the bodyguard of Samrith Vess in the late 15 century DR.
Zara was stone-faced and very tall (she loomed over Qawasha the druid,).
Zara had a rough-and-tumble personality, and was not very bright. When confronted with something strange or which she did not understand, she subconsciously made faces and pulled at her bottom lip. She was a woman of few words with a fixation on her sword, and the best she could manage when swapping tales was to grunt some boastful comments about kicking down doors and breaking bones. She was, however, cautious and protective when it came to Samriths safety and eventually came to be protective of Qawasha as well.
She was a graceful swordswoman, and moved with a smoothness said to resemble a snake. In battle, her scything attacks could rend limbs and heads.
She was always on alert, and could recognize the presence of undead by their scent.
Zara was very close with Samrith, who would grip her bodyguards arm when she grew excited. Zara tolerated this, and was also keen to help Samrith discover new things.
Zara had established a relationship with a sword trainer in Port Nyanzaru, and believed that just a few months of training with her was enough to make her ready for even the most dangerous of expeditions into the Chultan jungle.
Around the time of the death curse, Zara served as Samrith Vesss guardian when the latter traveled to Chult to seek out the ruins of Mezro. Alongside their guide, Qawasha, they set out into the jungle.
When the party encountered chwingas on the outskirts of Mezro, Zara was suspicious of and confused by the harmless beings. When they arrived in the ruins proper and were attacked by a horde of zombies, Zara took charge, leading the group out of any places they might get trapped and slaying zombies with ease.
After Qawasha experienced a vision at the ruins of the Maze of Life, he told Samrith and Zara about the Tomb of the Nine Gods and how Mezro could only be restored if they destroyed a terrible device that lay within. After Samrith offered to teach herself arcane magic in order to aid him, Zara proposed that she could also return to her trainer in Port Nyzanzaru to prepare for this quest.