Captain
Zaranda Star Rhindaun was a former human adventuress, countess, and then Queen of Tethyr.
Zaranda was very tall, standing at six feet, one inch, and had an athletic build. and strong, white teeth. By the late 1360s DR, she had a skewed nose (from having had it broken) and several scars and burns on her face.
Zaranda had a hearty laugh.
After her coronation, when she was blessed by the goddess Siamorphe, her facial scars vanished and she began appearing some fifteen years younger physically.
In battle, Zaranda wore a steel breastplate and backplate and a small helmet. In court, she favored soft, dark colors and velvet gowns. a linen tunic with deerskin laces, and soft boots with folded-over tops. She sometimes bound her hair back in a silver-colored ribbon.
Zaranda was the epitome of free-spiritedness she decided her own destiny. This trait is probably why she gave up her training as a mage at an early age she preferred the savage excitement of a fighters life over that of a studious pupil.
She could be calm, however, when the situation called for it, such as during matters of court or negotiations. Her temper would still flare, though, if injustice or violations of freedom or privacy occurred, and she would never negotiate over hostages.
Despite her free-spirited nature, Zaranda hated being late.
Zarandas independent personality was clearly seen in her romantic relationships, where she tended to be the one to both initiate and end relationships.
Queen Zaranda had three children with Haedrak, two girls and a boy&mdashtriplets. Zaranda was the first Tethyrian royal to have triplets in the 500 years since Queen Alisande. Princess Sybille, Prince Coram, and Princess Cyriana were born, in that order, in the month of Flamerule in 1370 DR. ("Sybille" and "Cyriana" were the names of the daughter and granddaughter of Queen Alisande, respectively.) 
Zaranda was an orphan, and not much else is known about her early childhood.
Her companions with whom she adventured were originally known as the "Company of the Star", but later became Star Protective Services. Among them were
* Shield of Innocence, an Orog paladin
* Vander Stillhawk, a human rangerHeroes Lorebook lists Vander as a wood elf archer/ranger, while Champions of Valor lists him as a human fighter. Lands of Intrigue mentions him several times but is uncharacteristically silent on the matter of his race and class. War in Tethyr describes him in detail as a human ranger raised by elves, so that is what is stated here.
* Chenowyn, Zarandas "apprentice", a young ruby dragon disguised as a human whom Zaranda treated as a daughter
* Golden Dawn or "Goldie", Zarandas intelligent, talking horse
* Gisbertus, a bugbear and Zarandas chief steward and chamberlain
After her crowning, many of the members of Star Protective Services became the Warriors of the Star, the elite service sworn to protect the king and queen of Tethyr. Vander Stillhawk was their first leader.
During the campaign against the Tuigan Horde, Zaranda met and became friends with Vajra Valmeyjar, Onyx the Invincible, Timoth Eyesbright, Vander Stillhawk (who later joined Star Protective Services), Kyrin Hawkwinter, and Zelphar Thann.
During the early stages of the Reclamation Wars, she met the members of the Company of Eight, with whom her ideals were closely matched. These adventurers too became her good friends.
Zaranda publicly converted to the religion of Siamorphe, which was a sign to her people of her nobility.
Zaranda was especially proficient in the use of the saber, battle axe, dagger, and boar spear. She strongly preferred melee combat, but could shoot a crossbow if necessary. She was skilled at mounted combat, able to strike foes on both sides of her horse with her saber.
She was skilled in the knowledge of the planets and stars but was opposed to the idea that they could predict anyones future.
She routinely used magic in her battles.  Two of her favorites were a fireball and the sleeping spell, the latter being the first spell she taught Chenowyn.
Her horse, Golden Dawn, was outfitted in a Calishite saddle,
Crackletongue was Zarandas magical saber, both from her adventuring days and afterward. It was named such due to its ability to "crackle" with blue flame in the presence of evil enemies.
Her most commonly worn crown was the "Queens Diadem". It was a simple weave of silver, gold, and mithral, decorated in a wave pattern with stars and goblets. It protected her from mind-reading spells. The "Monarchs Crown" was her state crown. It too protected from mind-reading but also afforded several other magical protections. It was made of gold, silver, and bronze with mithral, rubies, and garnets. It featured a carved image of Siamorphes goblet. She found it uncomfortable to wear. Both crowns were so enchanted by Elminster and Alustriel.
Zarandas scepter was a solid silver rod with the head of a lion with diamond eyes. It acted as a rod of absorption. It, too, was created by Elminster. When in court, Zaranda always had the scepter in hand, though Haedrak and Court Vizera Perendra Raslemtar could also wield it.
thumbnail|right|200px|Zaranda Star in combat, from the cover of the novel War in Tethyr.
Zaranda started her adventuring career as a wizard, under the tutelage of Alshayn,Book 1 of the Lands of Intrigue boxed set names the dragon-in-disguise Nyadnar as her tutor, but the novel War in Tethyr makes it clear that Nyadnar was not her tutor but her employer, the one who hired her to steal the brazen head from Thay. but soon bored of the training.
In 1360 DR, as a young mercenary, Zaranda Star fought against the Tuigan Horde while at Aglarond She was titled as a Captain during that conflict.
Zaranda returned to Tethyr and, in 1362 DR, purchased County Morninggold and its titles from the Order of the Silver Chalice. Sometime before the beginning of 1366 DR, Zaranda set off on a mercantile voyage that took her to places such as Thay and Unther, and she returned with a caravan of goods destined for Zazesspur. She accepted an orog named Shield of Innocence into her group, something which would normally be frowned upon. When her group arrived in Zazesspur in Mirtul of 1366, they were arrested by the Council on the order of Baron Faneuil Hardisty, but they escaped before they could be imprisoned.
In Tarsakh of 1367 DR, Star Protective Services were in Ithmong to speak with the Council when Zaranda was betrayed by one of her own companions and drugged and imprisoned in dungeons beneath Zazesspur.
On Mirtul 3, 1367 DR, Zaranda and her companions brought the Days of Terror in Zazesspur to an end by venturing into the Underdark and defeating the One Below, who was responsible for many of the evil happenings at that time. On emerging back to the surface, the people expressed their desire to make Zaranda their queen, and the date became known as Crowning Day.
Initially Zaranda expressed a desire to be Queen of Tethyr only so long as the people understood that her position was their responsibility, and set about discussing with Lord Faunce and Lord Hhune of Zazesspur how to get the support of the people.
In Flamerule, Zaranda boarded a ship to Velen where she was greeted as a queen.
In Eleasias, Zaranda exposed the pirates that were ruling Tulmene and enabled the towns citizens to defeat them, restoring order and winning her favor in Tulmene.
A few months later at Higharvestide, she received the public blessings of the Archdruid of Mosstone and this led to her being accepted as queen by the inhabitants of the forest and coastal areas.
By the winter at the end of 1367 DR, the rule of Julian Gallowglass, son of the former Lord-Mayor Ernest Gallowglass, over the city of Ithmong had become tyrannical and Zaranda stepped in, aided by villagers and her companions. They laid siege to the city and Zaranda, Marilyn Haresdown, and Tardeth Llanistaph captured Julian, confining him to the Cloister of St. Ramedar. Queen Zaranda renamed the city "Darromar" and made the old abode of Julian Gallowglass her palace, Faerntarn.
Star Protective Services helped defend against ogre and goblin attacks in the spring of 1368 DR, and, after a two-month siege, they overturned an ogre who sought to be king of Tethyr from Saradush and was backed by bandits and mercenaries hired by merchants from Myratma. Freeing the original ruler of Saradush, Oon Santele further unified the people and cities of Tethyr.
Thus, Queen Zaranda and her Loyalist Army set out to Myratma, where they found that one Yusuf Jhannivvar had placed himself on the throne. After a one month siege, the Loyalist Army was defeated by Prince Jhannivvar, and Zaranda herself was captured.
Zaranda had been tortured for three months in the prisons of Myratma, before Prince Haedrak and his army began the second siege. Prince Jhannivvar had her transported to Shoonach, where she was furthered tortured by the wizard Safana Aldhanek, who turned her back and forth into various animals and shapes with her polymorphing magic.
270px|Timoth Eyesbright, Zaranda Star, Purlakhonthiis, and Haedrak Rhindaun III escaping from the ruins of Shoonach.
Zaranda escaped from the clutches of Safana and fled deeper into the ruins of Shoonach before being rescued by Prince Haedrak and Timoth.
The group returned to the Loyalist Army and commanded it in the final days of the siege, which finally ended in the Storm Siege. Zaranda slew Prince Jhannivvar with an arrow on the west wall of the city, after he had treacherously stabbed Haedrak after the latter had bested him in a duel. Thus ended the Reclamation Wars.
Haedrak and Zaranda were married in three separate ceremonies on Kythorn 30 of 1369 DR at the Convent of St. Rhynda. During the final ceremony, performed by a priestess of Siamorphe, the couple were bathed in light, a divine sign of their nobility.
Their coronation occurred in the following month, at Faerntarn. Again, the blessings of Siamorphe were upon them, for the crowns placed themselves magically upon Zaranda and Haedraks heads.
In Ches of 1370 DR, Riatavin and Trailstone defected from Amn and requested to join Tethyr, giving Queen Zaranda her first real diplomatic conundrum.
Teldorn Darkhope attacked and captured the town of Kzelter in Mirtul of the same year, forcing Zaranda to send troops to two fronts at the same time.
300px|King-Consort Haedrak Rhindaun III and Queen-Monarch Zaranda Star in their throne room in Faerntarn circa 1370 DR.
In her new role as queen, Zaranda made several changes to the Kingdom of Tethyr in hopes of unifying the people. She removed the noble titles of earl and baron, leaving only counts and dukes. She move the capital city from Zazesspur to Ithmong, which was more central, and renamed it "Darromar" in honor of King Darrom Ithal, the first king of Tethyr, and she renamed many other lands and titles as well to what they were during the time of the Queens Dynasty.
The queen promised to hold court at least twice per year&mdashat Greengrass and Highharvestide. She was the only one permitted to rule in matters of "high justice" over other members of the royalty. She was responsible for maintaining armies for the protection of all Tethyr.
Queen Zaranda was advised by a "Royal Privy Council" consisting of the following members
* King Haedrak III
* Duchess Vajra Valmeyjar
* Duke Alaric Hembreon
* Duke Tardeth Llanistaph
* Duke Llachior Blackthorn
* Duke Inselm Hhune
* Duchess Marilyn Haresdown
* Duke Mirthal Aendryr
* Duke Allain Kevanarial aka Foxfire
* Lord-Mayor Lyrminor Vineshigh
* Lord Rauthomyr
* Lord Vorn Ghalmrin
* Lady Simonne Whitebrow
* Archdruid Arkaneus Silvermane
In her first Highharvestide court, Zaranda established the Loyal Order of Innocents in honor of her friend Shield of Innocence who sacrificed himself saving Zazesspur.