Zhjaeve was a githzerai cleric and planewalker who famously traveled to the Prime Material Plane to do battle with the King of Shadows at the Kalach-Chas side.
Like other githzerai, Zhjaeve had green skin stretched tightly across her facial features, accentuated the lines of her bones, slender features, and unusually long fingers. She had grey-yellow eyes. Her alien features carried over into her subtle body language, including her tendency to silently watch those she was interested in, for purposes that were often hard to read. Additionally, her appearance was more than a little similar to that of a githyanki, though with slightly rounder features, often causing some confusion and resulting in occasional cases of mistaken identity.
Zhjaeve was a stoic and unassuming individual whose dedication to her goals was absolute. Because of her role as a zerth among her people, Zhjaeve had a mental discipline that was not easily equaled. As a result, she sometimes seemed to lack emotion and act purely on logic, though this was not actually the case. As a result she often grated against Ammon Jerro, who did not trust her and whose skepticism was returned by the githzerai. On the affairs of the Prime, Zhjaeve had a disjointed and outside perspective, and was not afraid to voice her opinions on these matters. In speech she had the unusual idiosyncratic practice of prefacing her statements with the word "know", a practice sometimes considered typical of githzerai.
335x335px
Not much of Zhjaeves early life is known. She apparently knew Zerthimon, the founder of the githzerai offshoot of the gith race, implying her to be several thousand years old at least.
During the Shadow War in the , Zhjaeve was assigned to investigate the githyankis recent incursions on the Prime Material Plane, after their attention had been drawn by the Kalach-Cha. Discovering the origin of the githyankis troubles, Zhjaeve continued her investigations further, leading her to discover Black Garius hidden base within the ruins of Crossroad Keep. There, she was imprisoned alongside Aldanon, a wizard of Neverwinter, as it was hoped by Garius and his followers that Zhjaeve could reveal to him much about the King of Shadows, whom Garius planned to betray, as well as the Silver Sword of Gith and its fragments.
However, Zhjaeve revealed little of use and before Garius could bring his plans to fruition the Kalach-Cha led an assault on Crossroad Keep, interrupting the ritual and killing Garius. Zhjaeve, suspected a githyanki spy, was taken prisoner, though ultimately she would reveal her true identity and be granted amnesty. Thereafter, she insisted on traveling with the Kalach-Cha, claiming that her knowledge about the King of Shadows and the sword would be of the utmost importance to the hero in the coming battles. Among the first things she revealed was the meaning of the name "Kalach-Cha", which meant "shard-bearer" in the githyanki dialect of Undercommon.
Zhjaeve proved useful in many ways, helping the Kalach-Cha learn the secrets of the shards and their connection to them. Zhjaeve told the Kalach-Cha that, with one of the shards embedded in their chest, they served as a nexus and heart for the Sword of Gith, and the sole person able to wield it so long as the shard remained within them. Zhjaeve also revealed the origins of the King of Shadows as an Illefarn construct known as the Guardian as well as the root of the githyankis feud with the Guardian.
With Zhjaeves help, the Kalach-Cha recovered many of the remaining shards and discovered the secrets of the Ritual of Purification. In order to learn the ritual, the hero and Zhjaeve traveled to the ruins of Arvahn. There, the Kalach-Cha, with Zhjaeves help, underwent the preparation for the ritual, before following a song portal back to West Harbor, where the last statue needed for the ritual was located. However, upon arriving they discovered the village had been utterly destroyed. Realizing the King of Shadows was on to them they rushed to some Illefarn ruins near West Harbor, only to witness Ammon Jerro take the secrets of the ritual first, followed by the destruction of the statue by one of the Shadow Reavers serving the King of Shadows.
As a result, the group was forced to pursue Jerro to his Haven. Pursuing the warlock to his base, the team eventually found and ultimately recruited him. But he and Zhjaeve immediately distrusted one another, though ultimately both proved useful in the war effort. The next task they found themselves confronted with was the seeming invincibility of the Shadow Reavers who had fought them in West Harbor. For this purpose, the Kalach-Cha and Zhjaeve accepted the aid of Sydney Natale, a Luskan wizard who claimed to be in possession of the true names of the Shadow Reavers, though she demanded that only the sorceress Qara and Zhjaeve accompany the Kalach-Cha. Although it turned out to be an ambush, the three were able to successfully defeat Sydney and the animus elemental accompanying her while also reclaiming the true names.
After this, the group returned to Crossroad Keep and confirmed the true names, which they then tested in battle against the Shadow Reavers successively, felling the first member of the undead servitors and reclaiming a silver shard from it. Although this was not yet all the shards from the Silver Sword, it was enough, Zhjaeve deemed, to reforge it. Returning to West Harbor, the Kalach-Cha and Zhjaeve reforged the sword together and discovered that, in battle, the Kalach-Cha could shape it at will, owing to their unusually close connection to the blade. They soon had a chance to test the blade, when another Shadow Reaver arrived to try and stop them, only to fall before the power of the Sword.
It was not long after that the war picked up in earnest, with the Kalach-Cha and the forces of Neverwinter preparing their final assault against the King of Shadows. When the Kalach-Cha left to destroy the King of Shadows fortress within the Vale of the Mere, Zhjaeve, like all of the heros companions, accompanied them. There, Zhjaeve proved useful once again, reading the true names of the Shadow Reavers along with Ammon in order to end their unlife, clearing the path to the King.
Zhjaeves ultimate fate is unclear. When Ammon later met the Kalach-Cha within the Academy of Shapers and Binders in Thay, he was unable to determine whether or not Zhjaeve had perished in the collapse of the King of Shadows citadel or not, having not seen her during his attempt to rescue the hero from the machinations of the Founder.