Zlorb, also known as the "Strange Ox", was an evil murderous Cyricist phasm, who menaced the Western Heartlands and the city of Baldurs Gate in the late 15 century DR.
290x290px
Zlorbs true form was a colorful but deadly amorphous shapechanger creature called phasm. In its "Strange Ox" guise, Zlorb took on the shape of a rare breed of ox, a red-backed river ox, slightly smaller than average oxen found in the Western Heartlands.
As a shapechanger, Zlorb liked to take on several monstrous forms in battle a minotaur, a shadow mastiff, a massive dire wolf, or a phase spider. When in its ooze form, Zlorb smashed its opponents with corrosive pseudopods.
Zlorb carried an enchanted shapeshifters boon ring and owned a magic hat of fire acuity.
At some point in the , Zlorb took on the form of a red ox and joined a band of refugees fleeing the city of elturel. The strange oxs presence did not alarm anyone, and it meshed well with other beasts of burden. However, those who managed to notice the oxs strangeness or those knowledgeable of magic could discern that the animal was not what it seemed to be. Even if conversed with through speak with animals, Zlorb dismissed all inquiries into its true nature, insisting on the observers not being able to comprehend it and being just a mooing ox.
When the refugees reached the Emerald Grove, they became targeted by bloodthirsty goblins who served the Cult of the Absolute, and along with the survivors, Zlorb took shelter in the hidden druidic stronghold. However the events of the conflict with the Absolute were resolved, Zlorb survived the strife and found its way with or without refugees into the Shadow-cursed Lands, where once again, it sheltered with other oxen under the watchful eye of Harpers of the Last Light Inn.
If anyone was insistent and insightful enough, they could attempt to converse with the "Strange Ox," and if deemed friendly, the creature could open its depraved mind to them, showing images of death and slaughter. Once again, whether the Last Light Inn fell in the onslaught of the Sharran curse or remained undisturbed, Zlorb survived and soon after reached Rivington – the outer district of Baldurs Gate.
There, the "Strange Ox" was unable to gain entrance into the city due to the new laws of farm animals being confiscated to fight famine. Zlorb couldve asked the Absolute Adversaries for help infiltrating the city, and if agreed, it took on the form of a thinly delicious looking "strange apple." All the heroes needed to do it to deliver the "apple" into the Lower City of Baldurs Gate. If done so, Zlorb left a slimy note to its helpers thanking them for the service and praising Cyric. If aided into the city, Zlorb would also join the Absolute Adversaries in the battle for Baldurs Gate against the armies of the Absolute during the crisis climax.