Zundaerazylym, or Amundra Nelaerdra, was an ancient steel dragon in Neverwinter in 1374 DR.
As Amundra Nelaerdra, she was a curvy, stooping woman with gray streak in her hair.
Zundaerazylym was a loquacious dragon who earned her moniker from constantly laughing during battle from excitement. She did not seek out attention, and claimed no official dragon domain, though she did regard Neverwinter as her territory, defending it against other aggressive dragons.
She wanted people and dragons to live in harmony for the betterment of all. To this end, she wanted dragons to view themselves as guardians of a public treasure, instead of their own private hoard.
Zundaerazylym sometimes took the place of Moonstone Mask workers who were sick, making herself look exactly like the worker. Ophala Cheldarstorn led her employees to believe that it was she who was the source of this magic. She sometimes helped Ophala by smuggling guests out of the Moonstone Mask in her laundry basket, who needed to leave undetected for a number of reasons. On several occasions, she flew members of the Lords Alliance out of Neverwinter.
Zundaerazylym came to believe that the two greatest menaces to the North were the harsh climate and orc hordes. She decided that her duty was to resolve the orc problem. So, circa 1344 DR, Zundaerazylym hatched a plan to manipulate the evil dragons to make their lairs in orc territories so that they would fight each other, and to use alchemy to make it easier for good dragons to live in harmony with humanoid races. She experimented with ripplebark fungi to create longbite.
Understanding that for so great a plan to succeed she would need help, Zundaerazylym adopted the disguise of "Amundra Nelaerdra", a jolly and plump laundress who owned the Bright Weaves Laundry and also worked as a seamstress at the Moonstone Mask. As a seamstress she made stylish cloaks and gowns for the local nobility and cleaned and repaired the clothes from the Moonstone Mask. Using this alias she started recruiting agents to spread rumors to attract evil dragons to orc territories. She named her organization the Soft Claws.
Around , she killed and ate two wyverns who decided to lair in the southernmost Crags.
In , she took on her true dragon form to fight off a raid by Aerlendan "Shadowtalons" Mardilaer, an Arcane Brotherhood mage, and killed them over the Sea of Swords.
In 1373 Ophala Cheldarstorn took the dragon to the Astral Plan in order to avoid the dracorage maddness. 
In 1374 DR, Zundaerazylym was busy in her alchemical research, which had created some substances useful for good dragons.
Zundaerazylyms most trusted friend and ally was Ophala Cheldarstorn, her boss at the Moonstone Mask, and one of the few that knew her true nature. Cheldarstorn even kept the dragons hoard magically hidden (somewhere other than underground or inside the Moonstone Mask or Bright Weaves Laundry). Zundaerazylym had a good relationship with the female adventuring company the Galadran Company and their patron, the copper dragon Galadaeros.
She liked adventurers but was wary of unfamiliar wizards, mercenary companies, and secret organizations. She disliked tyrants and bullies, often teaching them a (non-fatal) lesson in Neverwinter.