The Calendar of Hmur was a prominent calendar system in Ser么s, the undersea realms of the Sea of Fallen Stars, during the empire of Hmurrath. Following the empires fall and the rise of the Timesong calendar, it continued to see use among most locathahs and some merfolk, though both races practiced it differently. The former kept it solely as an oral tradition, while the merfolk of Ser么s used it to for the purposes of written history.
Much like Whaletime, measurement of time in the Calendar of Hmur was based roughly upon the lifecycles and reoccurring seasonal activities of the merfolk and locathahs. These activities each corresponded to nine seasons, which together made up a cycle (year), and all together the system was fairly accurate to a surface year. These lifecycle activities included mating, birthing, the planting of kelp crops, summer harvesting, seasonal hunting, the shedding of scales in the winter,
Dates in the Calendar of Hmur were formed by counting the total number of cycles that had occurred over time since the founding of Hmurrath or its successor state Eadraal, followed by the ordinal number of the then-ruling praessar (ruler) of Hmurrath or Eadraal, and ending in one of the years of that rulers praess (reign). This practice of marking cycles in relation to the reign of a ruler was likely inspired by the Aryselmalyn calendar.
When denoting years from the time of Hmurrath, the date would be preceded by the abbreviation OH, meaning "Old Hmureckoning". When denoting years from the time of Eadraal, the preceding abbreviation would instead be NH, meaning "New Hmureckoning". Using the surface year of 1370 DR as an example, the equivalent date in the Calendar of Hmur would be written as "NH 620p26c35". This was because King Vhaemas was the 26 ruler of Eadraal, he was in the thirty-fifth year of his reign by that time, and in the six-hundred-and-twentieth cycle since the collapse of Hmurrath.As it was written from the perspective of the Present Age (then 1370 DR to 1371 DR), the source text does not state what notation abbreviation would have been used during the height of Old Hmurrath.
By the time of Hmurraths fall in , the end of the Tenth Ser么s War, the calendar had recorded around 900 cycles across 46 praessars. In addition, the Calendar of Hmur had counted up to 620 cycles for the successor state of Eadraal by 1370 DR.The text incorrectly refers to Hmurrath as having fallen during the Fifth Ser么s War.