thumb|right|300px|A diseased man being treated by a healer
A disease was a detrimental medical condition that was not an injury.
thumb|right|250px|Disease-bearing mosquitos.
A disease could be transmitted in various ways injury (e.g., a bite from an infected creature), ingestion (e.g., of contaminated substances or the flesh of an infected creature), inhalation (e.g., of an infected creatures breath or of spores), mere contact (e.g., with an infected creature, especially with an open wound), etc. Some were also caused by parasites. Creatures exposed to a disease ran the risk of becoming infected), and in some cases, creatures might spread a disease to which they themselves were immune.
Both ordinary disease as well as parasitic infections were generally more common in hotter and wetter climates, in places close to marshes or swamps, and in filthy or crowded conditions.&mdashas well as along heavily trafficked trade routes. When new or unknown diseases arose, most often this happened in rural or frontier settlements where the people encountered previously unknown afflictions while interacting with remote insects, beasts, and plants. This was especially a concern in terrains which acted as breeding grounds for disease carriers (namely wetlands) as well as anywhere in proximity to portals to the Lower Planes or areas in which necromancy had ever been used to spread plague (e.g., the Fields of Nun in Chondath).
thumb|right|300px|A sewer-dwelling wererat afflicted by sewer plague.
There was a generally important distinction between diseases which were "natural" and those which were "supernatural" or otherwise magical in origin. Natural diseases were acquired by mundane means, so even the most exotic of them could be treated (although perhaps not cured) with traditional or nonmagical care. Mundane fevers could usually be cured if treatment was provided in a timely manner, although the role of ordinary medicine in the case of many diseases or parasitic infections was simply to slow the course of the malady to allow for the body to recover naturally or to buy time until magical healing could be obtained. Meanwhile, supernatural diseases were generally incurable or untreatable with natural or normal medical efforts. Such magical diseases were often spread by magical creatures, such as lycanthropes or mummies.
People feared disease, especially if they lived in areas where people were concentrated together. A common practice was to drip three drops of blood or tears&mdashin homage to her holy symbol of three droplets in a triangle pattern&mdashinto or onto something or someone that was diseased, such as the mouth of a sick person, a tainted well, or blighted crops. The Church of Talona had a tenuous relationship with most other folk of Faerûn on one hand, they were blessed with an immunity to disease, which made them valued doctors and healers in times of sickness. On the other hand, they were known to spread sickness themselves, especially to those they felt had disrespected their goddess, and this made them generally feared and disliked. Open worship of Talona was even banned in some places, such as in Waterdeep during the late 15 century DR.
The most well-known diseases in Faerûn included the so-called Five Fevers and Three Plagues.
thumb|300px|The corpse of a victim of blacktongue fever is burned.When it came to practical means of preventing or treating diseases, most people in Faerûn had no real medical knowledge and therefore relied on past experience, either re-using methods that had helped themselves or close associates in the past or seeking the counsel of elders and the like. In general, folk had at least some shared understanding about how certain diseases were transmitted, In regions where there existed a risk of insect-borne diseases, folk made use of a variety of insect repellents to prevent illness. The importance of caregiving was also widely accepted, especially in regards to keeping the ill covered (or at least out of direct sunlight), treating them gently, keeping them hydrated, and administering herbal medicines and potions. Beyond this, however, there were many disagreements about treatment methods, which was the case for at least two main reasons first, there was the aforementioned reliance on personal experience&mdashwhich could differ between individuals or groups&mdashand second, there was false information that was intentionally spread. While some falsehoods were spread by evil factions with the goal of causing strife&mdashsuch as by followers of Talona&mdashother times they were spread by otherwise benevolent factions or churches&mdashsuch as the Guild of Apothecaries and Physicians of Waterdeep&mdashin an effort to exert political influence or to secure more coin for healing services.
While magic was perhaps the most reliable way to treat mundane diseases&mdashsuch as with the spells remove disease, lesser restoration, or greater restoration&mdashit was possible to treat even serious illnesses by nonmagical means, although such treatment took many days and could cost as much as 50 gp per day as of the mid-to-late 14 century DR. Folk often sought out such treatment not only if they feared that they could not afford magical services, but also if they did not have an affiliation with a deity. For milder ailments&mdashsuch as headaches, upset stomach, or the common cold&mdashnonmagical care was sometimes the only option because priestly spellcasters saw these as too trivial to treat.
Most medicines were nonmagical, even if they were called "potions" by common folk (mundane bottled medicines were more appropriately called "physics"), and most of these were made from herbs. Almost all folk in Faerûn had some basic familiarity with at least a few herbal remedies passed down through family, and many folk kept herbs in their homes (both fresh and dried, for there was generally little medicinal difference). In addition, even very small settlements often had an herbalist with knowledge about herbal remedies, and larger settlements tended to have at least one apothecary and perhaps a hedge wizard or a local priest who could provide similar knowledge even if they could not provide magical aid. Some claimed that chives and leeks were useful for treating disease.
thumb|300px|A priest collects victims of plague.
Plagues on Toril could arise from natural, arcane, or divine causes, and tended to occur during times of deprivation, such as following a war or famine. Diseases generally turned into widespread plagues only when a population had never encountered them before. While terrible plagues periodically ravaged Faerûn, such widespread disease was largely a problem of the past by the 14 century DR because most people were the descendants of survivors of plagues&mdashand had inherited immunities from their ancestors&mdashor had been exposed to various diseases since childhood and therefore developed immunities. Toril also had a long history of interspecies intermingling and crossbreeding, which boosted the populations resistance to disease.
Another reason why plagues were contained was that preventive measures were taken by priesthoods and rulers. This was done either through official enforcement, by secretly mixing medical substances into food and water, or collective action to contain outbreaks. People who were obviously afflicted with a terrible disease might also simply be killed as a precaution, at least in frontier regions. Along the Sword Coast, ships raised a black flag to signal the presence of plague when coming into port so that they would be quarantined and clerics would be sent to aid the crew.
The exception to the rule that plagues were no longer a problem was the goddess Talona. Whenever she felt that her power or faith was waning, she was prone to inflict a plague on the land
The most common or well-known diseases in Faerûn were
Other notable diseases included
Regional or localized diseases included
Notable plagues or other unique diseases included
Diseases affecting creatures other than humanoids included