Druid circles were organizations of druids sharing certain common beliefs and abilities, fulfilling the same function as temple hierarchies did for priests.The term druid circle is also, much more rarely, used to designate ritual places such as circles of menhir or the Redwood Ring. (Serpent Kingdoms, page 108)
While druid circles were obviously populated by druids, they also often included other nature-friendly allies such as wood elves, rangers, and fey creatures such as dryads. Generally all members of a circle were deemed equal, including non-druids, with an unofficial hierarchy based on age and individual accomplishments. Though in some groups, druids were revered by the non-druids who worked in their circle.
A typical circle included up to a dozen druids plus their allies, although some larger ones existed. Members could be worshipers of various nature deities or all could be devoted to the same power, such as Chauntea, Eldath, Mielikki, Silvanus, or even the Elemental Lords, with Grumbar and Kossuth being the most commonly revered of the Lords.
Druid circles gathered to honor nature and its cycles, to protect sacred places, or to ensure the balance of nature wasnt threatened by civilization. This included fighting diseases affecting living beings, ensuring beasts could feed and breed in peace, slowing woodcutting and burning of trees, as well as making sure roads were built sparingly.
It was usual for the population of settlements established near wild places to seek the local circles blessing before hunting or farming in their territory.
Gathering of circles often took places in clearings, or in sacred places such as the Dancing Place, moonwells or menhir circles. In urban environments such as Waterdeep, circles would meet in parks, or sometimes in cellars which contained a natural pool, running water, or earthen floor.
As circles were not only composed of druids but also their allies, some included whole families. Children raised in a circle developed a strong understanding of the wilderness, and if raised in the vicinity of a large town often became liaison between their organization and more civilized folks.
The pine folk of Northeast Faerûn were really close to nature, and organized in tribes led by druid circles.
Harpers were notable allies of many circles active in North Faerûn, especially the High Dance. Their rangers and bards served as connection between the organizations, were offered food and shelter, and were allowed to attend and speak during gatherings. This wasnt true for all circles, though, some considering those who harp as dangerous for the natural balance as the evils they fought.
thumb|right|270px|An elven druid of the Circle of Dreams.
Druids of the Circle of Dreams maintained a strong bond with the Feywild and counted themselves among the allies of the benevolent fey creatures of the Realms. They protected the bountiful, often dreamlike locales in the wild, instilling in those they encountered a sense of wonder and dreamlike fantasy that could uplift even  the most downtrodden.
Drawing from their benefactors of the Summer Court, these druids could offer additional healing to others by means of their naturalistic balms. More experienced Circle of Dreams druids could even draw upon powers of the Gloaming Court to form shadowy refuges, within which they could rest without worry of harm or intrusion. The most skilled of this order could readily travel through fey crossroads and venture into the dreamscapes of others, by means of illusion or divination. Several times a day they could even teleport to any location upon which they last slept.
thumb|right|270px|A gnomish druid of the Circle of the Land.
Those belonging to the Circle of the Land were among the most knowledgeable and sociable of druids, meeting frequently in sacred spaces to discuss and pass on mystic lore through the oral tradition. These druids often served as kind of liaison between the rest of druidic society and the civilized world, serving as advisers and priests to local communities that remained true to the Old Faith. Members of the Circle of the Land were generally more magically adept than other druids, gaining access to a number of extra spells as well as the ability to restore their expended magic through meditation. Their affinity for magic also gave them immunity to certain forms of elemental or fey magic, as well as to virtually all forms of disease or poison.
Druids from the Circle of the Land were often deeply entwined with the land and the people they served, and their primal magic frequently took on a form which reflected the local landscape. For example, a Druid of the Land living in an arctic climate could cast sleet storm or cone of cold while one living in the Underdark could instead cast gaseous form or insect plague. Likewise, druids with a moderate degree of training in the Circle were able to move through nonmagical difficult terrain such as thorns or spines with relative ease and even possessed some resistance to magical forms, such as the vines created by an entangle spell. The close connection between Druids of the Land and the wilderness they served also helped them in encounters with wild beasts or plants, who instinctively hesitated when attacking experienced members of the Circle.
thumb|270px|A half-elf druid of the Circle of the Moon.
Favored by those who preferred a more solitary path, the Circle of the Moon was an ancient association of druids devoted to the mastery of the Wild Shape. Gathering only occasionally under the cloak of darkness to discuss news or pass on warnings, Druids of the Moon often went weeks without seeing another druid or even simply another humanoid. Enjoying the flexibility their Wild Shape ability offered them, druids from the Circle of the Moon were prone to employing a wide variety of shapes, as the situation required, or the druids own whims decided the same druid might go one day as a great cat and the following as an eagle.
The effort Druids of the Moon put into mastering their Wild Shape ability had many benefits. Even neophyte members of the Circle could shapeshift more quickly than other druids, and with additional training they could employ far more powerful beast forms than those available to other Circles. With experience, more advanced aspects of Wild Shape became available, such as the ability to overcome magical resistance or to transform into an elemental. The most experienced Druids of the Moon could control their shapeshifting ability to such a subtle degree so as to emulate the effects of the alter self spell at will.
Circle of the Shepherd druids called upon the spirits of the natural world, along with those of animals and even creatures from the Feywild. Like most other druids they felt most at home in the wilderness, far away from the trappings of civilization. They protected wildlife and fey beasts by turning away monstrous predators and hunters alike, and often took to adventuring in order to pacify the most dangerous threats of the Realms.
As befitting their charge, these druids learned to commune with animals and fey early in their calling. They developed the power to summon forth spirit totems, spirits of once-living animals. These spirit totems grew in power over time, themselves learning to protect innocent animals and guard their bonded druid from any mortal threat they faced.
The Circle of Stars was a former druidic circle from the Dalelands whose members drew upon the power of the stars and other celestial bodies. They believed they could wield the powers of the cosmos by tracking the movement of these bodies across the night sky and recording them in magnificent megaliths, such as the Standing Stone.
Novice druids of this circle learned to create miniature star maps, which they then used as their spell focus. As they strengthened their bond to the stars, they utilized it to seek omens from the skies above. Circle of Stars druids also learned how wild shape into new luminescent forms, which resembled constellations come to life. The starry forms of the most powerful druids allowed their bodies to become temporarily incorporeal, protecting them from the perils of the Prime.
This small druidic circle was active near Ravens Bluff and Dragon Falls, and was dedicated to the goddess Chauntea.
Active in the Forest of Lethyr, the Circle of Leth was one of the most powerful druidic organization of all Faerûn.
The Druids of Tall Trees were active in the High Forest in the mid-to-late 14 century DR.
This circle was active about  upriver from Ravens Bluff.
Druids from the Circle of the Stag were devoted to Mielikki and based in the High Forest during the 14 century DR.
The Dusk Circle was based in Westwood and later in the portion of Kryptgarden Forest, nestled in the foothills of the Sword Mountains in the Sword Coast North during the late 14 century DR.
Active in Amn, this Circle tried to reduce the issue caused by dust storms by planting new trees on the regions hills.
The circle in the Moonwood famous for their Amber acorns of the Moonwood Circle, a necklace that enables the exclusive summon of elementals. This circle mysteriously disappeared in .
A secretive circle active in the region south-east of the Neverwinter Woods during the late 15 century DR. Its members transformed an old collapsed dwarven mine into a sylvan habitat and herb nursery.
The High Dance was active in and near the sacred Dancing Place of the Dalelands.
A circle active near the hamlet of Knightswood during the mid-to-late 14 century DR.
The Nature Seers were a druidic circle composed of ancient half-elemental druids who watched over the Grove of Renewal, located deep beneath the surface of the planet.
This circle was active in the Neverwinter Wood, and tried to clean it from goblinoids and tomb robbers.
Rumored to be active in the Vast, the Shadow Circle used cruel and evil ways to push civilization back.
The Shadow Druids were a militant sect of that operated throughout the Sword Coast and Amn during the 14 and 15 centuries DR.
A circle active in the Forest of Mir.
A circle active near the village of Kirinwood during the mid-to-late 14 century DR.
Active in the High Forest near Secomber, the Watchers aimed to prevent the creation of logging roads.
Active in the Neverwinter Woods during the late 15 century DR, this circle worked on preventing the spread of the city and on maintaining the surrounding wilderness clean.
Active in Shadowdale, respectively Battledale, those long-established circles were destroyed circa 1365 DR.
This extinct circle was composed of druidic dragon worshipers, which were active near Dragonspine Mountains.
Active in the Dalelands, this circle was destroyed long before the 14 century DR.
A druid grove dedicated to Silvanus and lead by archdruid Halsin, located on the Western Heartlands and active during the late 15 century DR. It was aligned to the Emerald Enclave, but later infiltrated by the Shadow Druids.
Those undead remains of an old druid circle where gathering in the northeast part of the Neverwinter Woods during the late 15 century DR, long after their death at the hands of the Twisted Rune.
While originally a druid circle active in the Vilhon Reach, the Emerald Enclave evolved over time into a much bigger organization.
A fictitious organization, the Circle of the Scarlet Moon was actually a front for the Cult of the Eternal Flame, an elemental cult devoted to Imix, the archomental of fire.
While their existence was documented, those circles either didnt assume dedicated names, or sages failed to keep track of those.
* A circle led by the treant Zalaznar Crinios was active in the Gulthmere Forest of Cedarsproke circa 1370 DR.
* A circle led by the hybsil Five Point was active in the Silver Marches during the mid-to-late 14 century DR. It was said to be the second-largest circle in the the North.
* Numerous circles devoted to Mieliki existed in the North, following the goddesss reintroduction of druids to her church in the .
* Numerous circles existed in the Moonshae Isles, gathering around the moonwells dedicated to the Earthmother.
* A circle made of lycanthropes existed in the Brokenstone Vale of the Feywild.