The Druids Deep is an adventure pack for Dungeons & Dragons Online where the player characters must investigate a corrupted druid grove. The adventure pack was added to the game on August 20, 2012 as part of Update 15.
The Druids Deep takes place at the same time as the events of Menace of the Underdark, and shortly after the events of the Shadow Over Wheloon section of Shadowfell Conspiracy. Like The High Road of Shadows, it follows a plot tied to Oriphaun Huntsilvers flight from Wheloon Prison with the Abyssal Planus Mechanus Nether Scroll, and deals with the repercussions of his seemingly insignificant act of passing on a magical staff he found to his friend Halsaime. The priest Anazar Narroun serves as the central questgiver for the adventure as he directs the player to investigate each issue as they emerge.
Outbreak is introduced by the priestess Meena Follakin, who sends the player to the Eveningstar War Hospital to address a bizarre plague afflicting it. With the ongoing war against the drow, the Purple Dragons and War Wizards are unable to get involved, and so it falls to whoever volunteers to help. It is revealed that the ranger Peron Uthe carried a strange disease from the druids of Thorngap, and has caused many patients to become red musk zombies. The head priest Hurim Jaskyr uses samples from the recently-converted zombies Mikhael Jarvin and Aeron Leifbrand to create an inoculation against the plague, and Peron Uthe is destroyed before this zombie plague can escape the hospital.
Overgrowth follows on with Eolynn Arva, who reports spotting strange plant growth emerging from Perons home. The investigation reveals that the building is filled with unnatural plant growth and corrupted, murderous creatures, led by the dryad Sylvie. Meeting the Harper Jussko Kwahn, they team up to take the dryad out before she can threaten the whole town.
Thorn and Paw has the player working with the Harper Kirinel Zay to track down the origin of this strange plant corruption. She sends them with Garstrom Toom to find Thorn Hollow, where Halsaime lives, only to find the druid circle filled with more hostile plants, frenzied animals, and mad druids. They find the friendly druid Carm Woodrusk, who reveals that Halsaime is responsible for the nightmare, and gives a cryptic hint as to where to find him before dying of her injuries.
The Druids Curse is directed by the Harper Tarim Inavule, who sends the player on a final strike to the Druids Deep where Halsaime has hidden. Fighting through his last defenders, Halsaime is caught and killed, with Jussko Kwahm destroying the powerful cursed staff that drove him mad in the first place. Pleased with saving the day, Tarim promises to immortalize the players victory in a new song, The Song of Druids Deep.