Metapsionics
Empower was a psionic science used by advanced psionicists to craft psionic items.
The process itself was delicate in the extreme, and functioned on objects that were not only particularly onerous to make, costing several times what a regular version would cost, but also that had been finished no more than forty-eight hours prior to the empowering. Every day, there was a tiny chance (not even one in five for most psionicists, and less likely than not for anyone whose mettle wasnt near-godlike) that progress could be made at all.
During such days, there were two steps the psionicist was to complete on the first step, the device was to be granted a discipline this step could be done only once. A device could not be granted multiple disciplines. On the second, it was to be granted a power this step could be repeated for objects intended to hold multiple powers. Each such step was extremely costly on the psionicists energy, with the amount consumed significant enough to limit the number of attempts in a day. They were no more likely to work than the day itself was likely to allow work, and the step of granting a power required the user to make an attempt at using the power correctly.
Sealing the device was another step. This step was not as draining on the psionicists energy, and could in fact be neglected, but if not sealed, the object would lose one power per month until it became a mundane device. In either case, the power always instilled in its target a new intelligence, though one aligned generally with its creator and almost certainly slightly less intelligent than them. They communicated in a like manner to most sentient items, though those imbued with telepathic powers could prove more versatile.
Alternatively, the process could be used in conjunction with the receptacle devotion. This process was much shorter, requiring only one step rather than four to construct a container capable of storing raw psionic power for its creator.
Daltim Flamefist discussed the process of construction of empowered psionic items during a conference with other mages in Halruaa in the mid-to-late 1360s DR. He explained to all attending that those devices were capable of using powers from a single discipline and that they were all intelligent the lecture also stressed these objects were not necessarily magical, though they could be, and hence they werent detectable  by detect magic and similar spells.
By , construction of psionic items was largely no longer regarded as the result of a specific single psionic power anymore, but rather as a group of separate techniques, none of which necessarily produced sentient items.
* Amethyst dragons
* Githyanki
* Kyorl Odran, matron mother of House Oblodra in Menzoberranzan as of