Exarchs were the most powerful servants, agents and champions of gods, demon lords, and other beings of great power. They were low-ranking divinities and were often referred to as demigods.
In most cases, an exarch was a mortal servant of a god, that was elevated to divine status to serve as an agent in the mortal world. However, there were other beings of great power, such as demon lords, who also employed exarchs. While most exarchs were mortal servants of the gods, such as very powerful adventurers, who were appointed to this position for their mighty deeds, some were powerful beings such as outsiders or legendary monsters, who were promoted by their patrons as a reward for their faithful service.
Becoming an exarch was a mutual agreement between a patron and a candidate, and while the most common way of becoming one was that a deity (or another powerful being) was the one who offered the position to the potential candidates, sometimes the would-be exarchs were the ones who offered their services to their potential patrons. As a general rule, candidates to exarch-hood were free to either accept or refuse the position, but in the case of Chosen and saints, they were expected to become exarchs of their gods. And promising demigods were often manipulated by deities into becoming their exarchs.
Exarchs gained no special powers or abilities for becoming exarchs, but they were extremely powerful, unique individuals among their kind, with capabilities far beyond those of other members of their original races, something that made them worthy of earning that position to begin with. However, most deities granted their exarchs unique spells, magic items and special abilities to commune with them when necessary.
Exarchs were unable to create planes of their own, but they could create demiplanes or small fiefdoms in the home planes of their patrons. but they were more often simply conduits from the mortal world to the attention of the higher gods.
The number and nature of exarchs varied between deities, with some having only one or two, others having none at all, and others having a great number of exarchs. Moradin and Pelor were known for having many exarchs, while Bahamut and Tiamat had elevated powerful dragons into this position. It was also known that Asmodeus had promoted the eight archdevils of the Nine Hells into the position as well.
Some deities allowed their exarchs a great deal of freedom, checking on them from time to time, while others managed their exarchs closely. Exarchs were expected to council with their patrons when on their presence, and when on missions in the mortal world, they were often contacted by their patrons through dreams, visions, divine messengers and even physical manifestations. Sometimes, exarchs were even summoned to the presence of their patrons on their home plane.
As a consequence of the Spellplague, many gods lost much of their divine power and became exarchs in the service of other gods.
* Fzoul Chembryl
* Kuyutha
* Obould
CategoryExarchs
CategoryDeities
CategoryDeities by power
nyw9imdcz1qlnzwvj8n4egegb79y10f