thumb|right|300px|A denizen of the Underdark gazes at a variety of fungi.
A fungus () was a type of vegetation that included mushrooms, toadstools, and molds.
Some species of fungi were bioluminescent, but these were rather rare. They were more common in the Upperdark than the Middledark.
Fungi were most abundant in Torils Underdark, where they and other vegetation received nourishment from the ambient faerzress. Areas particularly diverse in fungi included Fluvenilstra and Gduars Garden.
The year 238 DR was known as the "Year of Many Mushrooms." During this time, prevalent damp weather and rotting diseases all across northern Faerûn promoted rampant growth of mushrooms. Trade in harvested mushrooms and mushroom-related products (especially fried ones in salted gravy) became prevalent, while reports of myconid sightings became more common.
thumb|381x381px|A few fungi.
Thousands of species of fungi existed on Toril. Some of the known fungi on the planet included the following
 Acorn truffle  A species of edible fungus found along forest beds and favored by many wild beasts.
 Ascomoid  A very large, spherical fungus that typically rolled around and tried to crush its prey while spewing streams of spores out from its orifices.
 Araumycos  A very large fungal growth that lived in the Upper Northdark.
 Barrelstalk  A barrel-shaped fungus that usually held potable water but turned poisonous at maturity.
 Bluecap  Common in the Underdark. It could be ground into flour and baked into sporebread.
 Blushcap  A red and white mushrooms made famous by nursery rhymes. 
 Bonecap  A species of foul and acidic mushrooms that fed on grave rot. 
 Browncap  An edible wild mushroom, staple of dwarven cuisine.
 Brownflower A species of edible mushrooms, Amnian delicacy.
 Bullywug trumpet A sour-tasting edible mushroom that flourished in dark and damp places.
 Cloudspore mushrooms A species of mushroom that unleashed thick clouds of spores when disturbed.
 Crag mushroom A fleshy edible mushroom with healing properties.
 Deathcap mushroom Delicious but deadly poisonous fungi from Northwest Faerûn.
 Deathsbreath mushroom A delicacy for goblinoids from the High Moor.
 Dragon egg  A medicinal subterranean mushroom.
 Funguswood  A common mushroom used as a wood substitute and sometimes as a savory spice.
 Frosted mushroom A species of frost-covered fungus that released icy cold spores in a burst when squeezed.
 Gas spore  A balloon-like, toxic fungus that bore a resemblance to beholders.
 Glowcap  A easy glowing mushroom from underdark, and a valuable trade commodity.
 Greensleep  A poisonous fungus found in the Moonsea area.
 Khondyn  A plate-like brown edible mushroom found near Blustich in Cormyr.
 Morel  A species of edible fungus popular in Cormyr.
 Nightlight  A naturally bio-luminecent fungus that grew in Underdark and could be used as a temporary source of light by travelers.
 Nimergan A mushroom beloved by duergar who fermented it into alcohol of the same name.
 Phantom fungus A type of fungal predator with innate invisibility.
 Phycomid  A type of fungus that reproduced by infecting other organisms with their spores and gradually overtaking their bodies.
 Pygmywort  A duergar fungus from Gracklstugh.
 Rogues morsel  A species of edible forest mushrooms from the Western Heartlands.
 Spotted mushroom  A tasty and edible red-capped mushroom from Neverwinter Wood.
 Swarming toadstool  A species of clustering parasitic mushrooms often found swarming bigger fungi.
 Tessadyle  A stringy fungus common near mind flayer colonies. Primarily used for clothing.
 Thoud  An odd-looking edible mushroom found near Blustich in Cormyr.
 Timmask  A hallucinogenic giant mushroom also known as the devils mushroom that grew in Underdark.
 Torchstalk A torchstalk was a fungus that grew in the Underdark which had a flammable, gas-filled orange round cap.
UttercapAn edible mushroom cluster found near Blustich in Cormyr.
Violet fungusA fungus typically used by treants for protection, they could grow to the size of a human.
Zabou mushroomA species of Chultan mushrooms with poisonous spores that caused severe itching.
Zurkhwood A tall mushroom with edible spores and wood-like stems used for building materials in the Underdark.
ZygomA semi-parasitic fungus that preferred inhabiting and feeding on living creatures.
Some bioluminescent fungi that grew in the Underdark were quite prized by alchemists on the surface.
Mushrooms were a common foodstuff on the surface. For example, in the Hollowhar area of Silverymoon, mushroom and wine soup was popular and venison-and-mushroom broth and mushrooms in cream were specialties of Swordsfall House. The local dish thaevor potatoes included mushrooms of many kinds that were safe for consumption. Mushrooms made up the bulk of the diet of the inhabitants of Skullport. These mushrooms were sourced from mushroom farms in small outlying caverns and other levels of Undermountain.
Fungi, especially those purposely planted as beds or forests, had a wide variety of uses for drow depending upon their species, being used as a source of light, food, fiber for weaving, various medicines and oils, or a combination of these.
Some master winemakers believed that stomping grapes barefoot was beneficial and even an intricate part of wine-making. Various funguses that grew on humanoid feet aided the fermentation process.