Hassitoriums were a unique form of mobile fortress found only in the plane of Acheron, where they were utilized by the various spirit legions that constantly waged war there.
These fortresses were bizarre fusions of machinery, ironwork, stonemasonry, and necromantic magic. Hordes of slaves, were built into the very walls of each. These beings lived in a constant state of anguish, their bodies and life force powering the structures. Once a creature was entombed within the walls of a hassitorium, it was impossible to remove them.
The living beings built into the walls of a hassitorium acted as its motive force, as well as some of its moving parts. and were forced to drag the structures along on roughly hewed runners made out of either iron or steel. These runners produced a torrent of sparks as the hassitorium moved across the uneven metal battlefields of Acheron, leaving behind glowing hot skid marks in their wake.< On occasion the slaves within these walls were said to stumble and tumble out of them if they couldnt keep up the pace demanded of them, leaving them to be crushed under the oppressive weight of their hassitorium.
It took a special individual to command a hassitorium, though it was not a requirement for captains to be wizards.
* Istvarhan, also referred to as Ishtavarek, was a hassitorium commanded by the half-orc Estrak Longtooth on behalf of the orcish spirit legions.
The hassitoriums were named for their creators, an ancient race known as the hassitor. Some time after they fell extinct, the spirit legions of Acheron learned how to recreate the processes by which to forge a hassitorium.
By the 14 century DR,
Around this time a group of adventurers from Ravens Bluff visited the plane of Acheron. There they came upon the Ishtavarek and its captain, Estrak Longtooth. When they inquired with the half-orc as to where they were, he told them the name of his hassitorium, of the race that had created the mobile fortresses, and gave a rough explanation as to how they operated.