The High Mage of Silverymoon, or High Lady Mage in its feminine form, was the title afforded to the ruler of the northern city of Silverymoon. The capable wizard chosen for the position was, in most cases, either elected by the Silvaeren themselves or named by the preceding High Mage as their chosen successor, and customarily carried with them a unique staff of Silverymoon as proof of their sovereignty.
Traditionally, the High Mage ruled from the High Palace, to the citys eastern front. This magically warded fortress held their chambers, the Silver Throne, and, later, Moon Seat, upon which they sat, as well as much more at their disposal. This included, for those High Mages who died with the Silvaerens respects (and did not leave or disappear upon retirement), the Crypt of the High Mages, where they would be interred by having their bodies turned to stone whilst still clutching their staves.
thumb|right|250px|Alustriel Silverhand epitomized the qualities of a High Mage learned, cooperative, and, most of all, kind.
637 DR – 712 DR
 Ecamane Truesilver The first of Silverymoons elected High Mages, and the first to start it on the path to becoming a sister city to fabled Myth Drannor.
712 DR – 719 DR
 Aglanthol the Red Given the position by his great-uncle and teacher, he created the first staff of Silverymoon and ruled through the culmination of Myth Drannors fall.
719 DR – 784 DR
 Ederan Nharimlur Known as Catseye, his reign was mostly peaceful—the only notable exception being the theft of his staff by Brothers of the Black Hand.
784 DR – 857 DR
 Amaara Nharimlur The daughter of her predecessor, she oversaw the creation of some of Silverymoons most famous landmarks, including the Moonbridge.
857 DR – 876 DR
 Elué Dualen Given the title by Amaara Nharimlur after decades of friendship, her sudden disappearance marked the first disruption in the rule of Silverymoons High Mages.
877 DR – 882 DR
 Tanalanthara Mytersaal Commended as the Protectress, she put an end to Lashtors life and to Silverymoons darkest year, living to see the creation of foul Hellgate Keep, until she gave the ultimate sacrifice for her city.
883 DR – 920 DR
 Tanisell the Cloaked Many refugees escaped to Silverymoon during the Cloaked Lords years, forcing him to expand the city, for the first time, onto the River Rauvins southern bank.
920 DR – 1050 DR
 Nunivytt Threskaal Friend and confidant to his predecessor, his rulership was longer than that of any High Mage prior, coming to be known as a learned and peaceful golden age.
1050 DR – 1230 DR
 Orjalun Taught magic by Threskaal since childhood, he was a natural choice as successor, seeing Silverymoon through further southern expansion and a terrible plague.
1230 DR – 1232 DR
 Sepur The tenth High Mage, though named directly by Orjalun, soon deserted the city. The ensuing power vacuum caused Spellsfall, the destructive fighting of 25 of the citys wizards, and the subsequent election of Silvermayor Theomel Scalson.
1235 DR – 1235 DR
 Shaloss Ethenfrost The only High Mage to steal the title, after wresting control of Silverymoon from another tyrannical Warlord, he ruled over the city, as it was besieged by orcs, for only two months.
1235 DR – 1369 DR
 Alustriel Silverhand The first High Mage to be elected by the Silvaeren unanimously, for her rescue of the city, she would also become the first to retire from the position into a higher one ruler of an entire confederation of cities.
1369 DR – 1480s DR
 Taern Hornblade Named High Mage in Alustriels wake, sometime soon before 1489 DR.
1480s DR – 
 Methrammar Aerasumé One of Alustriels twelve sons, he only received the right to rule his home city after the dissolution of Luruar.