The Kara-Turan calendar was the calendar by which the civilized lands of Kara-Tur measured the months of the year.
The modern calendar was devised by an emperor of Shou Lung in ancient times, in order to fix the dates of various annual festivals and holidays. In this, it was very successful and was widely adopted by all the civilized cultures of Kara-Tur by the mid–14th century DR.
The calendar was arranged according to the movements of the Moon and the constellations in the Celestial Heavens, which were maintained and steered by the Moon Women. The standard calendar comprised twelve months, four with 29 days and eight with 30 days, with a total of 356 days in a year. The months, their numbers of days, and the events held during them are as follows
Tsou (30 days) New Years Festival holy day of the God of Heaven Feast of Lanterns holy day of the God of Spring holy day of the God of Wealth Fertility Festival holy day of the God of Happiness holy day of the God of Learning.
Ju (30 days) Holy day of the God of North holy day of the Goddess of Mercy.
Yu (30 days) Holy day of the God of Central Mound holy day of the Queen of Heaven Cherry Blossom Festival
Kao (30 days) Birthday of Saizu, the great teacher who founded the Path of Enlightenment in Wa holy day of the God of Medicine holy day of the God of South. The first day of a period called Shiang began in this month.
Kao II (29 days) Holy day of the Thunder God Dragon Boat Festival holy day of the God of War.
Chu (30 days) 
Hsiang (29 days) Holy day of the God of Fire Purification Festival.
Chuang (30 days) Moon Feast Festival holy day of the God of Land and Grain holy day of the God of Furnace Great Sages Birthday.
Hsuan (30 days) Holy day of the Wine God Yang Feast holy day of the Polar Gods holy day of the God of Wealth.
Yang (29 days) Holy day of the God of Disease.
Ku (30 days)
Tu (29 days) Kings Festival.
Other months were also recorded
Lotan The first day of a period called Matu began in this month.
Maki A cold winter month observed in Tabot.
The calendar included many special feasts, festivals, and holidays celebrated by the many cultures of Kara-Tur. Feasts were causes to gather in numbers and enjoy a grand banquet, or at least an affordable one. Festivals were celebrations that could run for several days, and even weeks. Holy days were dedicated to one or more gods whether or not they were observed in a community depended on its culture and dominant faith. Where they were observed, they were simple affairs, and were typically a reason for a feast.
The years sometimes had names  was known as the Year of the Great Sky Serpent, and  was known as the year of the Ding Hai.