Lobsters were a type of crustacean that could be found in the Realms.These core sources &mdash Monstrous Manual on page 50, Monstrous Compendium Volume Two on page 29, and the 1 edition Dungeon Masters Guide on pages 180 & 224 &mdash all state that crayfish and lobsters are the same thing. While crayfish are similar to lobsters and are even colloquially known as "freshwater lobsters," they are distinct creatures.
In 1374 DR, a false Temple of Mystra in Wheloon kept water barrels full of live crabs, lobsters, and shrimp to feed their aquatic otyugh guardian.
Lobsters were once considered to be one of the great delicacies of the Sword Coast North, but by the late 15 century DR few people in Luskan sought to trap them.
Giant lobster A monstrously sized species of lobster.
Rock lobster A species of lobster endemic to the Sea of Moving Ice. First discovered underneath a dock, this species was named for their coloration resembling rocks in their habitats, which gave them a natural form of camouflage.
Star lobsterA species of lobster endemic to Firedrake Bay.
Lobsters were known to be found in the Dragon Reach, the Sea of Swords, the Trackless Sea, and the Celestial Sea.
Beyond the Prime Material plane, large lobsters could be found in Blibdoolpoolps realm in the Elemental Plane of Water. In the Astral Plane, lobsters could be found in the Living Sea.
Lobsters in Serôs often had antagonistic relationships with moray eels and octopi.
Large lobsters could typically be found inside the temple complexes of Blibdoolpoolp,
Lobsters were fished for as a source of food by a variety of people, such as the inhabitants of Ravens Bluff, Velen, and the giants of Maelstrom. Fishermen from Miyama Province were known to fish for them around the island of Marujima.
The fishing for lobsters was so common that there were traps specifically designed for capturing them, known as lobster traps. Auroras Whole Realms Catalogue sold these for around 5 gold pieces.
Restaurants in the Realms that were known to serve lobsters included The Painted Boat near Ravens Bluff and the Stonecutters Solace in Port Llast.
Aquatic creatures known to prey upon lobsters included merfolk and tako.
In the land of Chult, legends claimed that a tribe of human fishermen named the Aldani overfished a river until no lobsters remained and as punishment Ubtao transformed them into lobster-like creatures.
The apparatus of Kwalish resembled a lobster.