Lost one a was term used in the Domains of Dread to refer to people whose minds had been shattered from an encounter with some great evil.
thumb|273px|A lost one looks forward with a catatonic stare.
A lost one was typically denoted by the terrified, tortured expressions bared by their faces, their catatonic movements, and the lifeless, blankness of their eyes. They rarely spoke with others, save to utter warnings or periodically fly into fits of hysteria. They often confined themselves to a place they felt safe within, losing interest in the outside world at large.
A lost one was normally averse to fighting and wouldnt make any effort to defend themselves, but when confronted with the type of evil that had shattered their mind a lost one would fly into a berserk rage and attack it with whatever was nearby.
* Anna, a fragment of the soul of Tatyana of Barovia that had escaped the Domains of Dread and found its way to the Prime Material world of Toril, reborn as a woman with madness that was eventually committed to an insane asylum in Waterdeep. Jander Sunstar later learned that she was considered a lost one.
Sometime in the 14 century DR, on a day when The Veil rolled into Ravens Bluff a bloodthirsty inquisitor arrived to the city on a pirate ship. Over the next several days he committed a series of bizarre murders in the citys seediest sections, often upon the homeless, mutilating their bodies. The citys chief constable, Rolf Sunriver, hired a group of adventurers to investigate these serial killings. While waiting for him in the Bloating Mermaid Inn the adventurers fell asleep and woke up to find themselves in a strange abandoned version of the inn, having been dragged by the mists of Ravenloft into the city of Touraine in the domain of Nidala.
While walking around the city adventurers met a group of five female lost ones. Gwendolyn, who had been traumatized by ghouls Linda, who had been traumatized by a lich Monica, who had been traumatized by a mummy Veronica, who had been traumatized by a vampire and Wanda, who had been traumatized by a werewolf. The five frantically pulled them to their nearby compatriot Ilsa, lying in a pool of her own blood, who had been assaulted by the inquisitor just moments before. The adventurers possibly healed Ilsa and spent time with each of the woman until their escort Agnetha Corbett arrived, who explained that the women were all Asylum patients she was taking on a walk. Before the two groups departed, Gwendolyn gifted the adventurers a rare antique coin as thanks for saving Ilsas life.