0
150224
847359
847335
2023-02-24T055151Z
BadCatMan
3030475
proofread, spelling
847359
wikitext
text/x-wiki
Maat was the uniting, arguably overgod principle of the Mulhorandi and Pharaonic pantheons. The exact meaning was not easily understood, but it combined features of many concepts of ethics into one overarching code of conduct. However, Maat was far more than a simple behavioral standard, but revered as the natural, divine, and fundamental state of all reality.
All things were expected to conform to Maat, for it put the gods, pharaohs, and commoners in their rightful place and allowed for peace between mortals and gods. To follow it was the one path to a happy life and to refuse could only be expected to result in misery and turmoil. Allegedly, without Maat, the very existence of the gods would be without foundation and the universe would crumble.
For lack of better terms, Maat could be treated as the natural desire of all persons to live a lawful good life. Following Maat meant fulfilling ones moral obligations to others, and applied to those of high station as much as those of low. Just as the common citizens were expected to put in an honest days work and follow the law, so too was the ruler expected to provide compensation and administrate with fairness.
Most deities of the Pharaonic pantheon praised and upheld Maat as the underpinning order of their divine being and the Mulhorandi dynasty were heirs to its maintenance.
Horus-Re was a strong believer in Maat. According to his doctrine, harmony came from living within it rather than fighting it. The laws existed to bring prosperity to its followers and the pharaoh and his representatives set laws as guidelines for honorable and traditional behavior. Should the guidelines not be applied with honor, however, Osiriss fair judgement was left to determine the law.
Outside the Mulhorandi pantheon, Anubis weighed the souls of deceased mortals against the feather of Maat, revealing them to be just and honorable and worthy of reward should his scale balance, or else be fed to a devourer of souls if it tipped the scale.
Mortal judges who followed Maat invoked its presence so as to decide cases with impartial justice. Similarly, rulers strove to govern according to the principles of Maat so justice and order would mark their rule, often seeking advice from clerics to do so.
While all deities in the Pharaonic pantheon at the very least showed respect or keen interest in Maat,
The Pharaonic pantheon was concerned more about the fight of law against chaos (though they did espouse free choice and individuality) than of good against evil. They counted their true foes not the simply malicious, but those who would destroy and send humanity back to their primitive origins. By Horus-Res interpretation, that which led to evil was by its nature unlawful, and that which caused chaos unnatural. Treachery and traitors were similarly not to be abided, for such dishonorable behavior was against the divine order. Disrespecting the dead, such as by despoiling their resting places, was a violation of Maat particularly hated by Osiris.
CategoryOvergods
CategoryPhilosophies
bbhgce7j4w3izukyq5s1ic3oz6sw42g