thumb|right|250px|An obelisk atop a bloodforge and transferring mana.
Mana was a form of raw magic utilized by bloodforges and the mages who employed them in the Utter East.
 It was also known as spell power.
Mana appeared as a kind of golden light.In-game animation and artwork depicts mana transference and basal golem creation and transformation with a golden or pale-yellow flash, suggesting this is the mana.
This raw magic was called "mana" by adherents of the Great Mage, who taught a number of principles of warfare related to the function and philosophy of the bloodforge and its use in battle. They saw mana as a kind of food that fed the bloodforge and their war effort. Because of its uses and applications in bloodforge battles, mana was a fundamental resource in the Utter East.
Owing to its own magical nature, a bloodforge slowly generated mana and could store a large amount of it collected from other sources (though this had a maximum limit). All of a mages mana was stored in their bloodforge.
More mana could be generated in various ways. Most commonly, a basal golem (created by a bloodforge) that sat idle meditated in the form of an obelisk and gathered mana, which it then transferred to the bloodforge in pulses once a certain amount had been accrued (but less could be transferred early). However, the goblins of the Kingdom of Nix developed great cauldrons that would cook and stew a creature and yield mana to its owner.
Mana orbs, gray spheres of magical energy, could be found that bestowed an instant burst of mana to one who touched them.
Sacred urns, when carried by a slain creature, conveyed their essence in the form of mana back to their leader.
thumb|right|A basal golem emerging from a bloodforge in a burst of mana.
With the power of a bloodforge, a mage could turn a portion of its mana into a kind of living golem called a basal golem, utterly loyal to the bloodforges owner. Mana was also used to transform basal golems into higher-level creatures, to cast spells, and trigger certain magical items. It could also be used to heal a creature when adjacent to the bloodforge.
During the time of the Bloodforge Wars (648–657 DR), mana was extensively gathered and used to fuel the bloodforges, create and transform basal golem warriors, cast magic, and indeed power the whole wars themselves.
Late in the wars, the great inventor Eldura Moreen worked tirelessly within the Hall of Wonder to unveil the mystery that was the essence of the bloodforge (perhaps referring to mana). But the leader of the Legendary Campaign resolved that no-one should know the secret of what the gods had wrought, and went there to put an end to Elduras quest in a bloodforge battle.