0
123498
948052
694120
2024-06-29T231837Z
AZDE12773L
44564686
948052
wikitext
text/x-wiki
Martek was a wizard known as the Grand Vizier of Raurin. He was legendary in his power, and particularly known for his prophecy that the efreet Khalitharius would break free of his binding. In , he was resurrected by adventurers at the end of a long, convoluted quest he had designed a thousand years prior.
Before the River Athis dried, Martek ruled over lands downstream of Medinat Muskawoon. He also had a citadel, to which people could be transported by any Pillar of Martek. Inside his citadel, Martek hosted several courses to test whether uninvited guests were at least worth his time. Three such tests had been completed successfully in his life.
Martek began preparing for the end of Pasha Khalitharius imprisonment at least 50 years before the latter even arrived in Raurin, somewhere around the year . Before the River Athis dried, Martek had gave the Star of Mo-Pelar to the pharaoh Amun-Re. The star-gem was named by the pharaoh as a key component of the curse that dried the river. He also gave the Star of Shah-Pelar to another pharaoh of the desert it was stolen at some point afterwards by Badr Al-Mosak, who had it displayed in his crypt.
Over 1000 years before  After an extended battle, Martek emerged victorious, having bound the efreet into a lead box, though their battle unleashed energies that set the desert for tens of miles around on fire for a score years, creating the Skysea.
Martek began (or rather, resumed) preparations shortly after capturing Khalitharius, penning a prophecy that the efreet would be released a thousand years from then, and his Sphere of Power would be required in order to save Raurin from the efreets rampage.
He gave the efreets prison to the Lord of Pazar, along with the Star of Aga-Pelar as payment for keeping the genie imprisoned. and the pillar at the center of the city to deliver a message about it.
He also teleported to the Citadel of Ice and Steel in the Elemental Plane of Air, where in an audience with the Caliph of all djinn he convinced his Vizier, Aeraldoth, to allow himself to be bound for a thousand years to do battle with the efreet once the latter was released. Martek bound the genie in a bottle, which he concealed in Phoenix. The wizard had created a bottle that required a magical word in order to release its captive using his magic, he made a mark that would appear on the palm of the bride of the Sheiks son in the Oasis of the White Palm. He also created two amulets, which he gave to the Sheik and his son those amulets, when combined with the brides palm, would form a message on how to release the djinn. He hid the final Star-Gem, the Star of Khan-Pelar, in the Temple of Set beneath the Oasis of the White Palm, alongside a bone scroll case with a map inside it. Furthermore, he placed a message on a shrine atop the Temple of Set.
At the time of his final retreat, there were only two trials in Marteks Citadel that had yet to be completed the Black Abyss and the Mobius Tower. Considering his preparations complete, he had his remains displayed in the citadel, thereafter the Tomb of Martek.
In the year of , a scholar of Marteks prophecies, Aman Al-Raqib, sent some adventurers in a quest for Marteks Sphere of Power, anticipating it would be needed in order to defeat the efreet. These adventurers released the Pasha just as planned,
Martek was the author of Martek, By Martek. He also owned two posters of note, one labeled "Martek for Shah", and one labeled "Visit Beautiful Cormyr".
Adventures
Desert of Desolation
CategoryMales
CategoryHumans
CategoryWizards
CategoryInhabitants of Toril
CategoryInhabitants of Faerûn
CategoryInhabitants of Raurin
CategoryWriters
qquxaw8zs0ordgvjpv1rdju19enwkpm