0
140811
810740
807532
2022-08-20T152226Z
Ruf67
76770
added image
810740
wikitext
text/x-wiki
thumb|right|350px|The dreams of the innocent could be warped by malevolent psionic creatures like mind flayers.
A mindscape, also referred to as a dreamscape, was a reality that existed within an entitys psyche.
Each mindscape differed according to its creator. Some appeared rather mundane, as near-exact replicas of the Prime Material plane, 
Metaphysical rules differed between each dreamscape, and forces such as gravity and time functioned differently than in the Prime Material plane. Each dreamscape was finite in size, but highly morphic in appearance, as determined by the dreamer.
It was often possible for individuals to venture into these realities, and in some cases alter the dynamics within. even leading to injury or death for the dream-traveler. In other instances, anyone venturing into a mindscape was a mere witness to thoughts or memories and otherwise remained free from harm.
Magic in dreamscapes often worked differently than when cast in the physical planes. Simple spells were more likely to function normally, while more complex castings often had unexpected effect or simply failed outright. Oneiromancers could better control these effects while traveling within a dreamscape, while the practice of dreamtelling allowed spellcasters to better predict what might occur within.
The dreamscapes of outsiders were said to be extremely dangerous, with realities that were utterly alien to the minds of others.
The islands created by morkoths were said to share many traits found in dreamscapes.
Some spells such as dream walk allowed for one or more individuals to readily travel through the dreamscapes of other beings.
The journey into a dreamscape was a gradual experience and the borders between it and surrounding existence were never well-defined.
In the , a group of adventurers were pulled into a horrific dreamscape when resting in the village of Stormpemhauder.
Nearly any imaginable type of creature could be encountered within someones dreamscape, so long as it could be conceived of by the dreamer.
There were some horrific dream-spawned monstrosities that lurked within the material of which dreams were made and theoretically could appear within the dreamscape of any being.
* King Hekaton of the storm giants created a mindscape while being tortured in the Mirror Maelstrom on Avernus. It manifested as numerous important memories that appeared throughout the Storm Kings life.
* The Black Cyst within the Temple of the Eye maintained a dream-like mindscape as a line of self-defense against potential intruders.
Adventures
The Elder Elemental Eye
Organized Play & Licensed Adventures
The Harrowing of Hell
FileXanathars Guide to Everything Alt Cover.jpg|The cover of Xanathars Guide to Everything is a "stylized depiction" of the dreamscape of Xanathar and his pet goldfish Sylgar.
CategoryPlanes of existence
CategoryMagic
CategoryPsionics
lgvbom62nrmj74n7ivcza6bldthv2zj