0
171659
982186
981635
2024-09-17T172902Z
SunderedShor
45429029
+1 app.
982186
wikitext
text/x-wiki
Mind over body was a minor psionic devotion
In exchange for one hour of meditation per day, mind over body enabled a psion to either suppress or mentally satisfy their bodys basic physical needs food, water, and sleep. While the power was active, those affected would not feel hunger, thirst, or exhaustion.
Additionally, a psion could suppress the basic needs of others. This required the psion to meditate another hour for each person they wished to impose the effect upon and for each person to be in physical contact with the psion for the whole duration of the meditation. This physical contact was usually achieved through joining hands together, forming a continuous chain or circle of people.
At the minimum, mind over body could suppress basic needs for a period of five days, though experienced psions were capable of extending the period of effect much further. Upon the power reaching the end of its duration, the psion and anyone else that was under the effects of mind over body would collapse in exhaustion and require a day of rest for every two days the effect was active for, with two days of rest at the least. Alternatively, all those that were under the powers effect could be fully restored to normal by undergoing 24 hours of the psionic devotion complete healing.
* Githyanki necromancers often possessed the mind over body devotion.
* Psurlons, a psionic race of creatures.
* Pyreens, an ancient and mysterious humanoid race of psionicists native to the desert world of Athas.
* Ignious Rammousdammous, a tinker gnome and psionic wild talent who used mind over body to operate spelljamming helms for up to seven days without rest, an act that earned him great renown among those who piloted spelljammers.
* Lertis the Seer, a Banite high priest and psionic wild talent, who used mind over body to sustain his body while he spent extended lengths of time traveling across the Realms through astral projection.
* NarLheeth, an illithid psionist.
| organized play = Hammer of FireA Meeting of BrainsThe Mines of Sarbreen
CategoryPsychometabolism powers
ht2w25j19k3hfwu8dnev5ye5spd8pio