0
155198
974101
947707
2024-08-22T031846Z
ItalianKarsus
49063819
Less mouthful of a joke, added link to confirm identity between both powers.
974101
wikitext
text/x-wiki
 Molecular Rearrangement
Molecular rearrangement, or more properly matter rearrangement,Despite the slightly different power, both molecular rearrangement in 1st or 2nd edition and matter rearrangement in 3rd edition are described using similar examples, with the text of both powers explaining a case where a number of coins is transmuted into others of greater value. Similarly, the latter power is a part of the psychokinesis discipline in 3e, unlike similar powers, which fall within metacreativity. Thus, this article is written under the assumption that the latter power is intended to be the same as the earlier. was a psionic science of the psychokinesis discipline that allowed the psionicist to transmute minute amounts of matter, altering their fundamental structure and properties.
A successful use of this science altered an ounce of matter every hour, performing an alchemy-like operation which transformed any material into almost any other nonliving material. By modifying the molecules of an object, molecular rearrangement could also be used to upgrade a weapon by psionic tempering, but this required knowledge on the psions part on how its target was made in the first place. The amount of matter that could be affected was measured in ounces on either case up to  was transmuted over an hour. The power could be used in combination with create object, to create an object out of its raw materials just as they were refined.
Initial accounts claimed there was a relationship between the refinement of the psionicists psychic powers and the kinds of matter that could be converted, limiting the effects to transforming the molecules of metals while the least manifesters were capable of transmuting lead, gold and other soft materials, only those with some amount of progress could affect copper, tin, silver, zinc, and it took significant accomplishment to modify platinum, nickel, iron, and similar. Even those at the top of their professions werent guaranteed to transmute steel the transmutation of mithril required a psionicist well beyond the level at which they were worth their name, and exotic materials such as adamantine could only be synthesized by psionicists nearing the apex of their power. These accounts also made a mention of the fact that the drain it put unto the psionicist prevented another use for a month.
Accounts post-dating the Time of Troubles made no mention of such a relationship, explicitly mentioning from the start the conversion of coal into diamonds, metals to glass, wood to ruby, or even neutralizing a poison, none of which was necessarily metallic however, these more complex transformations required four times longer. These accounts clarified that the power respected states of matter and could not create matter or mass from nothing, nor could it affect living creatures above . Creatures under that mass limit were killed in the rearrangement of their molecules. In any case, several tries could be necessary for a psion who was not especially adept.
Amongst other known limits, molecular rearrangement was known not to affect artifacts from the Nine Hells, or divinely created material. Learning it, for most psionicists, required mastery of telekinesis and molecular manipulation.
Notably, the power was not affected by the phase trap spell. Some alloys were proofed against molecular rearrangement.
The power was better known under the name of matter rearrangement in accounts post-dating the . The more generic description was also more inaccurate, as it was only known to be used for the transmutation of metals into other metals it, too, was best known for its ability to improve the worth of coins. This power also acted far faster, requiring at most six seconds for , but was limited in effect to that much matter per manifestation its toll upon the user was also such that it hindered the development of their lifeforce, and their ability to learn effectively from experience, proportionally to the monetary value of the materials generated.
An extremely rare ability, it was only known to be used by gem dragons, in particular sapphire dragons, and the even rarer beljuril dragons. According to early sources, only a few extraplanar beings such as couatl or shedu could employ it the only other outsiders in possession of such power were immensely powerful ones such as Lolth, or Sardior. Solars were also likely to sport these capabilities.
The amethyst dragon Eldenser was known to bear the power of matter rearrangement.
[https//web.archive.org/web/20010205010900/http//www.wizards.com/dnd/DnD_BGH_005.asp Early 3rd edition Psionics Handbook power list, showing Molecular rearrangement instead of Matter Rearrangement]
CategoryPsychokinesis powers
imebtpdghgq46sol5zoy3pdcizzxjq5