0
2161
868589
654607
2023-05-28T061327Z
SunderedShor
45429029
Added mention of the "Cosmic Balance".
868589
wikitext
text/x-wiki
The neutral alignment, sometimes known as true neutral, was an alignment that did not include prejudice or compulsion. Those of such an alignment either disregard any commitment to good, evil, law and chaos, or believe a balance is needed between these forces in the world.In 4th edition mechanics for Dungeons & Dragons, neutral is found under the umbrella of the unaligned alignment.thumb|Lizardfolk, a commonly neutral race.
A neutral person did what seems to be natural to them, without strong feelings with regard to good versus evil or order versus chaos. They were not personally committed to upholding good in any abstract or universal way.
Being neutral was the most common alignment of sentient creatures of Faerûn and beyond, as well as the alignment of almost all animals and other creatures of very low intelligence.
Several deities that had influence over Realmspace were of purely neutral alignment. Many of these divine powers focused on either nature or scholarly pursuits. Some examples were Silvanus, Oghma, and Dumathoin.
Some that were said to be neutral committed themselves philosophically to neutrality. They were of the true neutral alignment. They saw good, evil, law and chaos as dangerous, extreme prejudices. They advocated balanced life, carefully maintaining neutrality in the long run.
Some of such an alignment, particularly druids, actively supported balance in the world, and sought to avoid being either evil or good. They did not wish that one side would become more powerful over them or anyone else, and would work against whichever side was the most powerful. Those of neutral alignment tended to side with the underdog in any situation, and they were often opportunistic in their actions. 
Nearly all druids were true neutral. This alignment is central to the philosophy of balance that druids seek. Those that druids sought to protect plants, animals, and the ecological health of Toril, essentially lacked alignment or ethos, and felt free to use almost any means in their protection.
Druidic orders often worked to maintain the natural balance among the alignments. However, many druids realized that most individuals actions (including their own) will prove significant to the cosmic balance. Druids saw the friction between alignments as the driving force in the world.
Some druidic spells of the Realms, such as word of balance, were able to paralyze or even kill those who were not of neutral alignment.
*Creatures of neutral alignment
*Inhabitants of neutral alignment
*Deities of neutral alignment
CategoryAlignment
CategoryNeutral alignment
j68k69sntkpuculgnf9qa2r4xmtrkb7