0
50877
973591
932418
2024-08-20T204349Z
SunderedShor
45429029
+1 notable.
973591
wikitext
text/x-wiki
This page lists common oaths, idioms, and colloquialisms in the Realms, those that are not specific to any faith or culture.
 Bind me and tar me
 Usually shortened to "Bind me!" A roughly and slightly stronger equivalent of "Strike me down!"
 By the great mystery 
 This was exclaimed when one witnessed something magical or unnatural. Jalma cried this when chasme demons burst through her window and Vajra Valmeyjar swore it when she saw a basilisk turned to stone. This may be a reference to the goddess of magic Mystra, called the Lady of Mysteries.
 By the sainted dog
 Vajra gasped this when Priam Agrivar healed her injuries and woke her.
 Dark and empty
 Usually shortened to "Dark!" A roughly equivalent of "Damn and blast!"
 Happy dancing hobgoblins
 A mildly comical oath, once popular but used almost exclusively by older people in the late 15 century DR, usually when astonished. Hobgoblins did not say this, and were not amused when they hear it.
 Lolths bloated thorax
 An exclamation of surprise that was occasionally uttered by drow.
 Those of all the Nine Hells take you!
 Usually shortened to "Hells!". It began as the roughly equivalent of "The devil take you!", but by the 15 century was more closer to "Hell take us all."
 Ill turn out your guts for blood red garters!
 An aggressive oath, said by those usually looking for a fight. Usually shortened to "Red garters!".
 Rhyesters Eyes!
 An exclamation of surprise, as in "Rhyesters Eyes! What a fighter he was." It was derived from the famous once-blind prophet Rhyester.
 Swear by the oak and the unicorns horn
 A common expression among druids from Sossal when making a promise.
 A proper earner
 Was said in Crimmor of a very nice tool or implement. Such tools would impress Crimmans very much.
 Being caught in crimson
 Idiom used in Crimmor to talk about a thief caught red-handed.
 Being on Vergadains crusade
 An idiom used in the Sword Coast to refer dwarves that were overly drunk, referencing the god Vergadain.
 Calling an all-horns hunt
 Idiom used by the Waterdhavian Watch, when releasing a bulletin to all guards in order to look for a dangerous or missing person. The term makes reference to the signal horns carried by all officers on patrol.
 Coin kept at home is begging to be stolen
 A common Waukeenar saying about not using money.
 Flush with high-heaped coins
 An idiom from the Sword Coast describing an individual or a group (e.g. trading company, guild, family) who were eager to invest or to buy large quantities of goods usually to start a new endeavor or to expand their portfolio.
 Guarding mine/his glints
 Idiom used in Crimmor meaning to hide mine/his valuable wares from public eyes to avoid having them stolen after leaving the city.
 Having too little coin to buy their own confidence
 Was used in Crimmor to talk about someone ostensibly flaunting their money by owning unnecessary ornate buildings or clothing.
 He/she counts like a halfling
 Someone is just being difficult for no good reason. This was a reference to how halflings were known to count the days of the week starting with their pinky fingers instead of starting with their thumbs like everyone else.
 Hoist by your own petard
 A common prophetic proverb or warning that an action, device, plan, plot, or scheme that someone is enacting will negatively backfire on them.
 Interrupt ones current
 An idiom among the people of Serôs that referred to someone as getting physically too close to another or getting in someone elses way.
 Men fall, but Tempus rides on!
 An older saying among the followers of Tempus. In disuse by the 15 century.
 Orcs is always trouble
 An old upcountry saying about orcs and their ilk, including half-orcs. Usually used by humans, elves and dwarves. In the 15 century was usually shortened to "Orcs is trouble".
 Riding mine/his own coin
 An idiom from the Sword Coast and Western Heartlands which meant "At mine/his own expense". It could also be used to mean "Ill pay for this round".
 Swirlcloaks
 Families in Waterdeep that aspire to become nobles by manner of dress, by attending social gatherings where nobles are present, and by buying noble favor.
 Theres a special place in the Hells for that one
 A common idiom used to express low opinion of someone. Variations of the phrase substituted Hells for either "Hell", "the Nine Hells", or "the Myriad Pits". Among intellectuals, the word "Baator", the proper name for the Nine Hells in Infernal, would commonly be used instead.
 Utter discretion, with coded receipts
 A common Waukeenar saying about doing discreet business, also used by moneylenders.
* Common dictionary
CategoryCommon
CategoryDictionaries
gboelnz6h1csug5gfmmjxec0b7y67re