0
87108
843653
436689
2023-02-07T001735Z
BadCatMan
3030475
missing refs
843653
wikitext
text/x-wiki
Over the Hurdles was a dice-and-board game popular in northwest Faerûn, circa the Year of Wild Magic, 1372 DR. Two to ten players sat around a table and took turns rolling dice to advance their token to the next space on the board. Betting was common on individual rolls of the dice, the outcome of the game, and many other conditions generally governed by chance. The game was offered at the Roaring Dragon House gambling hall, located just outside Waterdeep.
thumb|center|450px|A bejeweled hand throws a pair of dice in a game of Over the Hurdles. Various player tokens are seen on the course.
This game was played with a pair of six-sided dice and a board marked with squares in a "course" that indicated progress from start to finish. The first square was called the "Stables" and the last square was known variously as "Glory" or "Home Again". Each player had a token of some sort—a pebble, bone, or carved wooden figure representing a knight on a charger—and it began the game in the Stables. Players determined turn order by high roll, second–high roll, and so on, re-rolling to break ties. The players then arranged themselves around the table so the dice could be passed to the next player on the left.
For casual games, the board was drawn on a cloth that could be spread over a convenient table. In fancy gambling houses, special tables with the course permanently marked or inlaid on the surface were used. Dice rolling was done in a long, triangular chute or trough with a blunted point upon which the dice impacted. This trough was typically made from wood and surfaced with leather.
Each square on the course was marked with the value of the dice roll required to advance to it, in the following order
Stable - 4 - 3 - 4 - 4 - 4 - 5 - 4 - 6 - 4 - 7 - 4 - 8 - 4 - 9 - 4 - 10 - 4 - 11 - 4 - 12 (Glory)
Each player rolled the dice in turn, advancing their knight if they matched the next number, otherwise taking no action. Once per game, a player could take an extra roll on their turn by declaring out loud they were "taking the extra". Play proceeded this way until one players knight reached the square marked "12" and was declared the winner. Wagers could be placed at any time on any condition or outcome of a roll except while the current player was throwing the dice and the dice were still in motion. Any player that violated this rule had their token set back one square and the current player immediately received an extra turn.The source does not address the case where observers of the game place bets in violation of this rule.
CategoryGames (in-universe)
akemrnkmeer28qmp0y49x6yakqo6sz1