0
143634
841784
822743
2023-01-30T184804Z
Look-a-troopa
1827303
single p in conjugations of "worship"
841784
wikitext
text/x-wiki
Place spirits, also known as the spirits of the earth or little gods, were nature spirits that inhabited the natural landmarks and locales of the Anauroch desert known as places of power. They were worshiped as quasi-divine beings by the people of the Bedine tribes.
While they were rarely encountered by mortals, place spirits were entirely real and substantive on Toril. They each inhabited a different landmark each―such as an oasis, mountain, or mesa―and did not travel beyond their place of power.
Place spirits could be slain just like any demipower. If the spirit of any place was destroyed, a whole calendar year would have to pass before a new one could reform. 
Place spirits held strong prescience over all activity that occurred on or around their landmark up to  away. They could communicate verbally or telpathically with anyone upon their land, appear as manifestations, or create focal points in the heart of their place of power. Some spirits could only manifest in a single instance at once while others could form two manifestations. 
The spirits could also transfer between their places on the Prime Material plane to their corresponding locations within the ethereal plane. 
While they were highly resistant to magic, place spirits could imbue anyone within their territory limited spellcasting power up to a certain level. Additionally, they could perform wondrous feats for their worshipers once or several times per day as they so decided. Place spirits were capable of healing wounds, restoring a persons life essence, brining the dead back to life, and even grant wishes to their faithful.
The Bedine tribes of Anauroch were well-versed in the lore of the deserts place spirits and respected the power they held. The spirits themselves appreciated the respect and worship the Bedine offered and were tolerant of non-violent outlanders.
* El Mara Dat-ur Ojhogo, the "tall god who lets men sit upon his head" of the El Mara oasis and mesa.
* Rahalat, the Bedine sorceress whose spirit resided within an oasis after she was murdered by her own people.
* Nature spirit
Novels
The Parched Sea
Place spirits
CategoryDeities by power
CategoryDeities
CategoryYear of Miracles
oanw9x0wklown31xr69vh1bmkqdpmlm