0
155893
942009
880614
2024-05-26T032029Z
SunderedShor
45429029
942009
wikitext
text/x-wiki
Potion fruit was a general term for enchanted fruits and berries on the desert world of Athas, which took the place of potions and magical oils as water was too rare and valuable a resource there to waste on such usages.
thumb|270px|A satchel containing some potion fruit of extra-healing.
The magical effects of a potion fruit were contained within its juices, which had to be ingested or allowed to run over the users body in the case of oil-type potion fruit. This had to be done within one minute of breaking the fruits skin, beyond which these magical properties were lost, and they lasted for a period equivalent to a potion or oil on other worlds.
Potion fruit had a greater shelf-life than their base fruit, remaining ripe for strictly 99 years before rotting normally. Enchantment did not cause any change in taste from the base fruit, though potion fruits and the trees they grew upon could be identified with detect magic, identify, and similar spells.
There existed potion fruit equivalents for all manner of potions that were common across the Multiverse, such as apples that acted as potions of healing, cherries that acted as potions of bulls strength, pears that acted as potions of restoration, or persimmons that acted as potions of levitation.
A potion fruit could be created by a cleric, druid, or wizard by enchanting mundane fruit in much the same way they would create potions and magical oils. Alchemists could achieve similar results through strange forms of herbalism. Alternatively, they could be grown by clerics, druids, wizards, or rangers by planting a whole potion fruit in the ground and then tending to the tree it grew within a period of one to six weeks. Once potion fruit was picked from a tree it would produce no more, though such trees could be made to produce more by casting permanency on them. However, a potion fruit tree subjected to permanency had a maximum lifespan of 99 years.
The type of fruit enchanted had no effect on magical properties. Though fruits that were drier and thus lacking in ample juices, such as dates, couldnt be made into potion fruit.
In The Year of Despair, Malatran calendar, late 14 century DR, a group of heroes of the Living Jungle were sent from the Malatran Plateau through an elemental gate to the far-away world of Athas. Immediately upon arrival, the group was captured by Athasian elf slavers, Subsequently, the heroes escaped when the elven caravan was attacked by a hungry sink worm. They seized the opportunity and freed Kacha, fleeing from their pursuers across the desert.
After two days of travel across the hot sands, guided by Kacha, the group stumbled across his tribe, the Windrunners, and their leader, Kirikku. Kacha convinced them that the strange adventurers were friends, not food. Happy with one of their number returned, chief Kirikku gifted the aliens four large erdlu eggs (an invaluable source of nourishment in the Athasian desert) and two apples of healing. The thri-kreen then explained to the Malatran heroes how to reach their destination—the Ringing Forest—the way back to Toril.
While on the way to this forest the adventurers came across a mul village built around an oasis. There they were offered a number of trade goods, including potion fruit such as cherries of bulls strength, pears of restoration, and a persimmon of levitation.
CategoryFruits
CategoryMagic items
CategoryItems from Athas
m4gybng7b1pjhebh6tps77hag4837ay