0
149423
892827
892826
2023-09-19T054501Z
SunderedShor
45429029
/* Notable Users */
892827
wikitext
text/x-wiki
Power keys were incredibly rare to allow divine spellcasters to circumvent the planar restrictions on divine magic that existed in the Great Wheel cosmology.
The forms that power keys could take were nearly limitless, from physical objects to even gestures or rituals. However, the form was usually representative of the deity that created it.
A power key was imbued with part of the divine strength of the deity that made it, This was speculated by sages to create a link to the very source of a deity, allowing one to draw directly on their energy of existence.
Under normal circumstances, power keys didnt just restore normal functionality to clerical spells, but made them work even better than before and reach their maximum potential. However, many worked only for limited durations, especially those made by chaotic deities, having been intentionally designed that way as a safe guard against loss or theft.
They could be divided into three types specific, general, and greater.
Specific The weakest kind of power key, these were tied to only a single spell and were the most likely to have no limited duration.
General These power keys improved all spells of a single sphere of influence.
Greater The most powerful and rarest of power keys. These allowed for far less loss of clerical power due to planar distance from a given deitys home plane. The strongest of these were usually reserved for proxies on urgent missions.
Additionally some evil deities, usually chaotic evil ones, delighted in making false power keys. These altered spells in undesirable ways, perverted them, or outright canceled them. Sometimes even without the casters knowledge.
* Among the powers of Arcadia, power keys were usually highly regulated. Clangeddin Silverbeard gave out power keys that were golden battleaxes, mithral hammers, and miniature replicas of anvils. The Mulhorandi powers Isis, Osiris, and Ra gave out power keys made of silver or petrified wood and in the shape of an ankh or scarab.
* The power keys of the Gnome pantheons members varied in what spheres they granted access to, but virtually all granted access to the Elemental and Protection spheres.
* Ilmater was generous with power keys. He usually granted access to the All, Healing, and Protection spheres.
* Laduguer, being a god of crafts, gave out power keys that were items that had been forged by the recipient and blessed by a duergar priest. These keys only functioned for their crafters.
* Malar, being a god of the hunt, gave out power keys that were animal claws or fangs.
* Among the powers of the Norse pantheon power keys were most often gifted out by Frigga, Heimdall, Loki, Odin, and Thor. These five typically gave keys out only to priests that they deemed worthy, though as a god of thieves Loki notably allowed any power keys that were stolen from him to function. The various other powers of Ysgard gave out their power keys on a whim, with the most freely awarded granting access to the Combat and Guardian spheres. The power keys of Odin governed mental spells, such as the various extension spells and Rarys mnemonic enhancer. Lokis power keys were all related to illusions and deceptive alterations, such as alter self, delude, mirage arcane, and vacancy.
Power keys were passed out by deities to those who were their most favored, faithful servants, having earned them through years of service. And usually this gifting was done through a proxy. However, there were cases in which deities would gift them to receive a servants aid in direct and dire services, such as the quest to liberate Waukeen from imprisonment in the Abyss. 
They usually could not be bought or traded for, And on the wartorn plane of Acheron, some military officers were willing to sell theirs for a proper bribe, usually a minimum of 1000 gp, though unscrupulous officers were likely to sell keys close to expiring.
* Annia Graystockings, a paladin of Ilmater, carried a power key in the form of a wooden carving of two bound hands.
* Khamallan Teren, a proxy of Malar.
CategoryDivine magic
0nzakxnhnp3ulpnsjyiaaihrhkwokif