0
15588
954273
824441
2024-08-03T122032Z
BadCatMan
3030475
minor proofread
954273
wikitext
text/x-wiki
The "Seven Lost Gods", or simply the "Lost Gods", was a collective term used at different times for several different sets of deities and primordials. Numbering seven or even a host, they were of mysterious and ancient origin and caused disagreement and confusion among sages.
The name "Seven Lost Gods" originated in ancient times, and properly included seven demipowers who were defeated by or submitted to the god Bane, the Black Lord. These were
* Maram of the Great Spear
* Haask, the Voice of Hargut
* Tyranthraxus the Flamed One
* Borem of the Lake of Boiling Mud
* Camnod the Unseen
and two more whose names were lost to history.
These entities may have been primordials, and other candidates included Dendar the Night Serpent and Kezef the Chaos Hound.
In certain occult beliefs, one of the seven was slain by the mortal Bane, Bhaal, and Myrkul as part of their apotheosis. Based on an inscription on a menhir on Mezeketh Isle discovered by Zembrath Klun in 1359 DR, Borem was the slain god.
A later "Seven Lost Gods" originated in Westgate. These were seven deities worshiped in the city prior to the Templeban Edict in the Year of the Red Rain, 927 DR, and comprised
* Garagos,
* Ghaunadaur,
* Jergal,
* Moander,
* Savras,
* Silvanus,
and one more also lost to history.
As a response to the ban, shrines to these Seven Lost Gods were established outside the city, on seven hills to the west, each topped with a ring of standing stones. The southernmost was the Hill of Fangs, and was dedicated to Moander the Darkbringer. However, unknown to the common folk of Westgate, beneath many or even all of these hills were also secret underground temples to their respective gods. These shrines and temples were in use until the Templeban Edict was reversed in the Year of the Dracorage, 1018 DR, and the hidden temples presumably lay undisturbed since that time. In time, the hills were called the Shrines of the Seven Lost Gods, even if some were still worshiped in the city once more.
However, much older stories of Westgate suggested that these same seven hills were used for religious practices before this time and went back much earlier, to before there was a Westgate and the area was an outpost of the empire of Jhaamdath. What gods or other forces were venerated here is unknown.
CategoryPrimordials
CategorySeven Lost Gods
CategoryDeities
CategoryDeities by group
CategoryFaerûnian pantheon
dy79fgn5wqncx3r5nksetne7x12r80o