0
21051
626310
626304
2021-01-19T181148Z
Perikleskwaxulu
33416550
typo
626310
wikitext
text/x-wiki
thumb|120px|right|Shaaran
Shaarans were a nomadic human ethnic group that lived in Southern Faer没n, primarily in the Shaar region, although some lived in Halruaa, Dambrath, Unther or Mulhorand. They had a simple view on life, focused on survival and following the herds roaming the plains of The Shaar.
Shaarans often had a reddish tint to their skin, but other shades were also possible. This variation seemed to be more predominant in Shaarans closest to Calmishan, while the Shaaryan people of the Shaar itself were described as being yellow-skinned and possessing long faces.
Shaaran society was built around extended family units known as clans. Several clans formed a tribe which was governed by a chieftain and a council of wise elders. The chieftain would guide movement of the clan across the plains. This nomadic lifestyle was largely dependent on their highly-prized horses, that ironically, tended not to thrive outside their homeland.
Because these planes acted as a crossroad in southern Faer没n, the Shaarans learned to get along reasonably well with other cultures. Despite this, they have a particular distaste of gnolls and the Yuan-ti around Lake Lhespen or the Lake of Salt. Due to this, different tribes would easily fall into conflict. They would have no remorse about stealing, looting or pillaging from one another. Raids  involving large parties would often lead to war between tribes that could only be ceased by peace talks or annihilation.
Tribes not engaged in warfare would send delegates in the spring and fall to the Council Hills. These sacred burial grounds would play host to gatherings at which such topics as peace talks, alliances, territorial disputes, and outside threats were discussed. The cliffs and caves of the Landrise were also considered holy ground to inter the dead for some tribes.
Most Shaarans would live their lives as fighters, rangers or barbarians. Magic was not commonly practiced among the Shaaran tribes, though each would have a handful of arcane and divine spellcasters, the latter usually being about twice as common. Divination magic was considered especially useful and was usually available to the tribe chieftain, either personally or via a trusted elder. Druids were especially valued in aiding with the survival of the tribe and in matters of the herds and most tribes usually numbered at least one in their ranks.
Shaarans roamed the grasslands of southern Faer没n for as long as anyone can remember. The Shoon Empire attempted to subjugate the Shaaran but the tribes rebelled in the fifth century DR and have remained independent ever since.
Most Shaarans worshiped gods of nature or the hunt. Many followed Tempus or Malar although a few worshiped Akadi.
Shaarans spoke their own language, which had no known connection to any other language in Faer没n. They continued their culture through a oral history from one generation to the next. Few Shaarans could read or write, but those who did used the Dethek alphabet learned from the Dwarves of the Great Rift.
Some of the known tribes of the Shaar
* Ankheg Tribe
* Cheetah Tribe
* Eagle Tribe
* Hyena Tribe
* Lion Tribe
* Rhinoceros Tribe
ShaaryanHunter.jpg|A Shaaryan hunter.
Shaaran-Ankheg-Tribe-Carl-Frank.jpg|A member of the ankheg tribe ambushes a horseman.
CategoryHumans
8t1gaaduoj9iidjxsmfvl436g4slf0n