0
118734
763063
762929
2022-02-08T032141Z
BadCatMan
3030475
date of disappearance, add link to alternative video
763063
wikitext
text/x-wiki
Sleep Sound is an official animated short story published by Wizards of the Coast about the early life and adventures of Drizzt DoUrden. It was written by R.A. Salvatore, the author of the Legend of Drizzt, and narrated by Benedict Cumberbatch. It was released on Youtube on May 21, 2021, but the official video was subsequently made private by January 2022, and is thus unable to be viewed by the public.
thumb|right|300px|Drizzt is born as the third male child of Matron DoUrden.
The drow who would become the legendary hero, Drizzt DoUrden, is born in Menzoberranzan.
Many years later, Drizzt is now an adolescent and receives his signature blades, scimitars. He is given them by high-ranking females of drow society after the weapons descend from spider webs.Though the text and narration are accurate, the animation itself is not, inaccurately portraying how Drizzt received his scimitars. In actual fact, he acquired them from his fathers collection during training. As a right of passage, Drizzt ascends to the surface with his fellow drow. Here, he enters Icewind Dale for the first time to slay a group of surface dwellers living in a manor. However, Drizzt hesitates, and does not go along with the kill.This is not how Drizzts expedition went. Drizzt was instead part of an expedition to slay a group of surface elves during an outside ceremony. Drizzt pretends to kill an elven child, but covers it up. Drizzt is exposed by his mother for not following through with the act, and he heads to the surface.This scene incorrectly assumes that Drizzt has his green furred rangers cloak in Menzoberranzan as he is leaving, though he should actually have a piwafwi. Drizzt only acquires his green furred rangers cloak later from the Weeping Friars.
Finally on the surface, Drizzt and his astral panther companion, Guenhwyvar, seek shelter in a cave. The drow renegade finds a new set of allies Bruenor Battlehammer, Catti-brie, and Wulfgar. Together, they fight off foes together, and slay numerous yetis. Drizzt then becomes intimate with Catti-brie and they embrace each other.In the Legend of Drizzt series, Wulfgar and Catti-brie are intimate during this time, not Drizzt and Catti-brie.
Time leaps backwards to the birth of Drizzt, sleeping sound in a spiders web. Surrounded by members of House DoUrden, and their arachnid companions, Malice DoUrden prepares to kill her newborn son. However, Drizzt is spared.Though not mentioned in the video, only three male sons can exist in a standard Menzoberranzyr house. Due to the the death of Nalfein DoUrden, one of Drizzts brothers, at the hands of Dinin DoUrden, another of Drizzts brothers, there is one more spot now open. Thus, Drizzt was allowed to live. This is hinted at in Sleep Sound in the passage "Brother, I say, there can only be one. For if there were two, there couldnt be you. Then that silken swaddle, that tickling wreath, would instead be your death by the Spider Queens teeth!"
Time leaps forward one last time, to Drizzt and Guenhwyvar walking together side by side in the tranquility of Icewind Dale.
Bruenor Battlehammer • Catti-brie • Drizzt DoUrden • Guenhwyvar • Malice DoUrden • Wulfgar
panther • bat • human (Uthgardt) • dwarf • elf (drow) • horse • spider (giant) • white dragonThe white dragon depicted here might be Icingdeath, as Wulfgar and Drizzt fought him during this era. However, the actual battle took place in a cave, where Icingdeath was slain by a dislodged icicle. • yeti
battleaxe • bit and bridle • bow (and arrows) • bracer • cloak • dagger • helmet • horn • lantern • necklace • quiver • robe • saddle • scimitar • shield • sword • warhammer
Regions
Icewind Dale • Underdark
Settlements 
Menzoberranzan
Aegis-fang • piwafwi
House DoUrden • Tribe of the Elk
Clangeddin Silverbeard • Dumathoin • Lolth • Mielikki • Moradin
aurora polaris • Selûne (moon) • Sun
* [https//www.youtube.com/watch?v=5fP3C4hH3VU Official Sleep Sound animated short]
* [https//www.youtube.com/watch?v=nK9ZUZvr70Y Copy of Sleep Sound re-uploaded by Crit Academy]
CategoryPublished in 2021
CategoryVideos
d7uladcs3dafkv3hllftlnkwaaawpy5