0
144788
825139
825138
2022-10-30T164249Z
Artyom.pavlov
24367202
825139
wikitext
text/x-wiki
A spell-web, spell web, or spellweb was one of a number of different practices, most of which involved linking multiple "hanging" spells together, so that they would be released upon various triggers.
Cormathan spell-webs held spells in abeyance, waiting for a trigger.
By the , Deluma Dauntrael, the matriarch of the Dauntrael clan, was close enough to developing her own version of the ancient Cormathan spell-web.
Arcanaweaves were self-aware spell-webs – an offshoot of Cormathan spell-webs, devised by Jhesiyra Kestellharp, one of Halaster Blackcloaks many apprentices. She eventually became an arcanaweave herself.
Spell-webs devised in Lantan were said to feed on the magic of enchanted objects, spells as they were cast, and even the minds of nearby wizards, feebleminding them and removing, perhaps for years, perhaps permanently, their ability to employ any magic. The spell-webs then employed the stolen sorcery to power a variety of effects such practices were said to be amongst the many defenses that Lantan had against pirates.
Other so-called spell-webs were used to protect the Warlocks Crypt where the Netherese lich Larloch dwelt they were constructions that could spring to unleash magic upon intruders. Another Netherese lich, Saharel, kept up a bespoke spellweb which handled the defenses at Spellgard. The spell-web was stable enough to endure with little trouble the Time of Troubles.
The two sorcerous brothers ruling Adaerglast were reputed to have looted magic from all over Faerûn, and to use spell-webs to protect their castle. Those spell-webs were constructions such that triggering one spell led to a number of others to be activated in unison.
Two of the Seven Sisters were known to have used spell-webs. Ever-grander spellwebs were woven under Alustriel Silverhands rule in the Tower of Balance, within Silverymoon, but nothing was said of their functions. The Simbul kept her study copy of the Simbuls spell trigger concealed within a series of wards that included a spell-web.
Eirhaun Sooundaeril, a Zhentarim mage, had a functioning spellweb as of the .
Novels
Elminster in Myth Drannor &bull Elminster in Hell &bull Crown of Fire &bull The City of Splendors A Waterdeep Novel &bull Farthest Reach
Short Stories
How Wisdom Came to the Maimed Wizard
CategoryMagic
c78rj49i6x6ewfc5hcd8bnrycxq43cy