0
164654
998350
947956
2024-12-15T230131Z
Artyom.pavlov
24367202
ORPAN
998350
wikitext
text/x-wiki
thumb|380x380px|A Gondian submarine used by the Cult of the Absolute.
Submarines, also known as sub-marines or submersibles, were a rare form of watercraft designed to traverse the depths of seas and oceans. They were typically built by gnomesOut of the seven submersibles detailed in this article, four of them are specified as having been created by one or more gnomes. The Blue Glaucus and the two submersibles of the Ravens Bluff Naval Militia are of unknown origin. And with the Scarlet Marpenoth having originated from Lantan, it is possible that rock gnomes could have contributed to its construction. or at least operated by them.
thumb|380x380px|A mermaid observes a pair of drow on the Scarlet Marpenoth through one of its portholes.
Submersibles were described by some as looking like strange galleys, whilst others had designs inspired by marine life. Though some also had a second hatch to allow for diving into the water or entering from the water. Submarines tended to be able to accommodate most demihumans, though their dimensions were typically designed with gnomes in mind.
Being enclosed watercraft designed for underwater traversal, submarines were pressurized in order to keep water from leaking in and flooding them. or by extending a metal tube above the waters surface to retrieve air.The other submarines discussed in this article did not have any details about interior lighting provided for them, though they likewise lacked any mention of players having trouble seeing whilst inside them.
These vessels were powered by a collection of complex and noisy machinery, sometimes quasi-magical in nature and typically kept within a room separate from the main command room. These machines were what allowed for submarines to ascend, descend, change their direction, and be propelled through the watery depths. With these engines being in separate rooms from the command deck, metal speaking tubes were put in place to allow for swift communication between the two. Consequently, such machinery necessitated having one or more engineers on a crew.
Besides the command room and engine room, submarines were typically large enough to have a handful of other rooms or quarters for the crew members. For viewing the watery depths outside a submarine, there might be portholes, circular or dome-like windows fashioned from glass or glassteel, typically within the command room. These rooms might also sport a "periscope", metal tubes that functioned similarly to spyglasses and could be raised or lowered at any time.
At some point a gnomish submarine operating in the Trackless Sea had a run-in with the storm giants of Maelstrom. Pieces of the wreckage were kept by the giants in the fortresss study, while an apparatus of Kwalish that was recovered from the vessels pressurized hold was placed within the royal treasury.
thumb|The Blue Glaucus from the 350x350px
*Blue Glaucus A submarine in the late 15 century DR that was captained by the fallen aasimar Aiden and a crew of goblins.
*The Great Fish a fish-shaped steel submarine designed by a gnome in the Vast known only as "the Professor". The hatch to enter it was only big enough for gnomes or halflings to enter, rendering most of its crew to be gnomes. Sometime shortly after the War with Myrkyssa Jelan, the Professor showed up to Ravens Bluff and loaned it to a group of adventurers in their efforts to reach the beholder mage XAXANTHRAXIS before he could destroy their city.
*RBNS Nautilus one of two submersibles that were owned by the reformed Ravens Bluff Naval Militia long after the War.
*Sea Voyager another fish-shaped submarine. Made of brass and steel, it was designed by Leapold Manfeld, a gnome engineer in the Vast in the 14 century DR, who maintained a crew of halflings. During the War with Myrkyssa Jelan, the Sea Voyager was used by the Ravens Bluff Army to retrieve a group that had been sent behind enemy lines on an infiltration mission.
*The underwater boat, a small submersible developed by Nadul DaRoni that was self-propelled and could only seat a single individual.
*unnamed precursor to the Sea Voyager Sometime prior to the War with Myrkyssa Jelan, Leapold had designed another steel submarine. This one was built to utilize a steam engine, what his home village called the "Grand Design". Early tests with this machinery caused him and his crew to pass out, as the coal burnt by the engine would use up all oxygen inside the enclosed space. Though this effect was observed, the only thing Leapold understood of the process was that fire was somehow involved. Seeking a new source of heat, he returned to his mountain village in hopes that they might help him explore a nearby hot cave, but the villagers were reluctant to aid him. A group of adventurers visiting at the time agreed to do the exploration for him, in return for helping clear the Ravens Bluff Harbor of a recent shipwreck. This submarine was later lost, along with all of its crew except for Leapold himself.
*Scarlet Marpenoth, a submarine shaped like a manta ray in the late 15 century DR. A miniature model of it was kept on display in the House of Inspired Hands. The vessel later fell into the possession of the mercenary Jarlaxle, who maintained a crew of rock gnomes that were very knowledgeable about submarines.
* Unnamed submersible of the Absolute Sometime in the late 15 century DR, a clan of svirfneblin enslaved by Enver Gortash were forced to construct a submersible for the purpose of accessing Iron Throne headquarters that laid sunken beneath the depths of Gray Harbor. Wanting to use the discrete location as a hidden prison for the Cult of the Absolute, Enver had the abandoned building retrofitted with a metallic, cross-shaped structure atop its tower with a hatch that allowed for entrance from his submersible. This submersible featured interior lighting, a manta ray-like design, and utilized oil. During the time in which it operated the submersible was leaking oil into Gray Harbor, causing local fish to die, and in 1492 DR the Umberlant Holli Dylford died from being rammed into by the submersible.
*Apparatus of Kwalish, another submersible magical vehicle.
*Manta, a sort of submersible barge used by sahuagin.
Gondian Submarine 2.jpg|Gondian submarine interior.
Gondian Submarine 3.jpg|Gondian submarine helm.
*
CategoryGnomish items
CategoryItems
CategoryMetal items
CategorySteel items
CategoryShips and vehicles
CategoryWatercraft
CategoryItems from the Vast
CategoryItems from Faerûn
CategoryItems from Toril
lrlw1p90jvqv6td0wb8sts3xqe39i7z