0
169400
949759
949541
2024-07-12T112622Z
BadCatMan
3030475
minor proofread
949759
wikitext
text/x-wiki
The Suzail Writ was a piece of Cormyrian Law put in place by King Azoun V in the mid–15 century DR. The Writ bound the king to law, limited the powers of nobles, and elevated the common people by granting inalienable rights to all.
King Azoun V was crowned King of Cormyr in the , ending the period known as the Steel Regency of his aunt, Princess Alusair Obaskyr. The young king attempted to enact many reforms in the kingdom, including limiting the rights held by the nobility. These reforms failed as a result of the lack of political support by Alusair. Nevertheless, Azoun V would later be known as a great lawmaker. He placed the Suzail Writ into law near the end of his reign, finally succeeding in limiting noble rights as he had intended, and agreeing to bind the monarchy under the Law.
Like his father, King Foril I remained a strong proponent and staunch defender of the Writ. By the , 30 years into Forils rule, most nobles had accepted the new status quo. However, a few still sought to return their noble houses to prominence, scheming to either win influence over the throne, or to even win the throne itself.
On top of binding the ruling classes and elevating the common people, the Writ made changes to the government of the city of Suzail, which Lord Magister Edwin Morahan sought to institutionalize as his primary goal by the late 15 century DR. Because of this, Morahan was unjustly perceived to be biased towards commoners, which led many nobles to seek to oust him from his post.
The Suzail Writ granted inalienable rights to the common folk of Cormyr, meaning all who were considered "free citizens."
In this trial system, guilt and innocence was only determined at the end of the process and left in question until a verdict had been made. The losing party could appeal to the Crown, who could accept or reject such plea, and in case of acceptance, either name a minister to hear it, or have it be heard directly by the king.
Intricately worded portions of the Writ, compounded with other factors, greatly limited the ability of the War Wizards to monitor the thoughts and intentions of the nations citizenry through magical means.
Due to its role in limiting the rights held by Cormyrs nobility, not all noble houses accepted the Suzail Writ.
CategoryLaws
9gosduvg6ccfrpdez9e28mik6ubnxn1