0
33342
726105
199634
2021-11-10T193421Z
MovieBot
27144172
/* References */Adding Organizations in the Eastern Heartlands category
726105
wikitext
text/x-wiki
The Thanterim family were an Urmlaspyran merchant family that were closely aligned with the Church of Tymora. The Thanterims were quite successful, owning deeds, shares and loans in companies. However this all ended when Urmlaspyr rebelled against the Shadovar in 1409 DR for banning all religions except Shar. Amidst the fighting the family fled to Suzail.
By 1479 their fortunes had dwindled to nothing with the only member of the family still alive being Deskyr Thanterim. His father, Hersir Thanterim had died only recently, leaving his son with a massive debt. At this time Deskyr Thanteirm does have the key to his familys ancestral vaults, but he lacks the funds to mount such a dangerous expedition to recover the familys fortunes.
* A matriarch who bequeathed her oldest son to survive the rebellion of Urmlaspyr the key to Thanterim vaults. She died shortly afterwards.
* The oldest heir to survive the Urmlaspyr rebellion after the matriarch died. He was only a child at this time. His son was Hersir Thanterim.
* Hersir Thanterim liked to spend big and live large. He had only one son named Deskyr Thanterim.
The Estate was located in Urmlaspyr. It contained a family crypt with the entrance to the family vaults located nearby. Near the crypt was also a shrine to Tymora which included a statue of the goddess.
The passageways leading to the vault included a variety of traps and guardians. These protective measures included pit traps, magical crossbow turrets along with such homonculi as clay scouts and iron cobras. However the vaults also included statues of previous Thanterim lords and ladies, garbed in expensive clothing. Many of these were destroyed during the rebellions and by 1479 DR only a handful of the traps and guardians remained in working order.
Once inside the vault itself there were no traps or guardians. Twenty feet by twenty feet, the vault contained a variety of items in 1479 DR including crates with packing straw containing porcelain tableware, porcelain vases and silver chandeliers. In addition there are paintings of rich merchants with the occasional adventurer while high quality tapestries mostly depicted hunting and naval scenes. Furthermore the vault included a beautifully decoated suit of magical armour that secretly bore the holy symbol of Tymora, skillfully hidden amidst the decorations of the armour. Finally the vault included a spellbook, beautifully decorated religious scriptures to Tymora, a detailed map of a Tymoran church with the text written in code to obscure the location of the church as well as the various deeds, shares and loans the Thanterim family owned in numerous companies.
In 1479 the ruins of the Thanterim mansion are haunted by skeletons and undead spirits.
CategoryOrganizations
CategoryHuman houses
CategoryOrganizations in Sembia
CategoryMerchant organizations
CategoryOrganizations in Interior Faerûn
CategoryOrganizations in Faerûn
CategoryOrganizations on Toril
CategoryOrganizations in the Eastern Heartlands
4jso5mxdn259s44402547m1zjbimtaw