0
122325
998453
814023
2024-12-16T074550Z
Artyom.pavlov
24367202
998453
wikitext
text/x-wiki
thumb|Heroes and lifelong companions, Kynaios and Tiro, the first Kings of Meletis.|425x425px
Theros was a plane that in many ways resembled the mythic landscape and figures of both Olympus and a collection of city-states on a Prime Material world that the Olympian pantheon had worshipers on.
This plane consisted of three distinct demiplanes&mdashthe mortal world, Nyx, and the Underworld&mdashthat were all tucked away by its resident deities into their own pocket of the multiverse, away from most of the cosmos.
The major calendar system of Theros, the Meletian calendar, marked each day with the beginning of a new moon. Under this calendar, the people of Theros separated each year into twelve months that alternated between consisting of twenty-nine to thirty days, though once every three years the calendar would include a thirteen month.
History was a complex thing on Theros as, compared to other worlds, history became a matter of myth far more quickly, with details distilling into generalities, vagueness, and morals. It was often impossible for mortals to distinguish between the historical facts and myths surrounding the activities of their deities on the mortal world.
In the late 1480s DR, a channeling of power from across the planes occurred in the Icewind Dale region of Toril, potentially due to the Everlasting Rime or some other meddling on the goddess Aurils part. This meddling with planar magic caused some creatures from other worlds to be dragged into Icewind Dale. This included a leonin known as Yanna, who was watching her planes sun set over Oreskos when she was transported. While chasing after a pack of satyrs in that region, she ran into the cleric Celeste and explained her situation.
OreskosA vast dry, grassland valley nestled between two mountains. It was the homeland of the leonins.
Some multiversal creatures that could be found on this plane included amphisbaena, basilisks (but only with four legs), catoblepas, cyclopes, blue and red dragons, medusae, night hags, sphinxes, unicorns, harpies, and hippocampi. There also existed satyrs on this plane that, unlike other satyrs found throughout the multiverse, were a species that exhibited both males and females.
One of the uniquely distinct creatures of this plane were leonins, a race of lion-like humanoids that inhabited the golden plain of Oreskos, living there in either cave dens or mobile tent cities. They lived in Oreskos alongside gazelles, griffins, and lean lions.
Much like on the plane of Olympus, this world was noted for having adventurers who went above and beyond to become legendary heroes, risking everything for glory and not fading into the background.
*Elminster was one of the few (perhaps even only) Faerûnians to be aware of Theross existence and knew a great deal about the plane.
*MtG Wiki
CategoryPlanes of existence
htzli38ki1hccx0pymhj213kr2c7624