0
21126
778708
580215
2022-04-11T110949Z
Irrevrykal
25868161
fix link
778708
wikitext
text/x-wiki
Travelers dust was a deadly, addictive drug. Those that used travelers dust were said to be "walking the crimson road". 
Travelers dust was transported and sold in the form of tiny roseate crystals, each a bit bigger than a grain of salt.
After the crystal was dissolved on the users eye, it left the users sight with a red-hazed vista of breathtaking clarity. While the addict was striding the crimson road, all sorrows sank beyond recall, while all joys were raised like blazing stars. The user felt transfigured, alive, and potent.
The users of the drug embarked on a journey, likely with their souls or the astral forms, "walking the crimson road". The winding way lead directly into what Japheth Donard once speculated to be the literal Abyss. When the victims of the dusts astral form were transported onto the Crimson Road they were compelled to walk towards the gaping pit, screaming and unable to fight the urge. The Abyssal landscape was littered with Demons waiting, hungering for the moment the doomed soul plummets into the pit. The pit at the end of the Crimson Road ended in a precipice, and in its tooth-lined gullet, the drug-addled were consumed, mind and soul.
Travelers dust was used by dropping a single grain of the drug onto the eye and letting it dissolve.
Anyone using travelers dust showed these telltale signs trembling hands sometimes slurred speech, and&mdashmost telling&mdasheyes the color of blood.
If the users were deprived of the addictive substance, the resultant death was an awful thing to behold. Deprived walkers invariably became violent, first toward others, then to themselves.
One of the theories of the dusts origin held that it was the crystallized blood of a demon or a divinity.
Travelers dust appeared a couple of years after the Spellplague of 1385 DR.
Some cities banned the sale of dust and placed its users in secure cells where they could reach their journeys end in peace if allowed to keep their supply of dust.
Travelers dust was still a highly illegal substance circa 1490 DR. The substance was considered dangerous contraband even in relatively lawless places, like Luskan. Pirates of Ship Suljack paid well for the travelers dust contraband. One of such drug mules was Thoradin. 
Travelers dust was illegal in most civilized places.
Novels
Plague of Spells • City of Torment • Key of Stars
Video Games
Sword Coast Legends
CategoryDrugs
CategoryIntoxicating substances
CategoryMagical substances
CategorySubstances
taxrz7e6t76sm1l5hzjv0pjlrssqv6a