0
5791
929689
883244
2024-04-01T022229Z
BadCatMan
3030475
proofread, past tense, footnote refs
929689
wikitext
text/x-wiki
Volos ratings system was the means by which Volothamp Geddarm ranked taverns, inns, shops, alleyways, and so forth in his well-known guidebooks. The categories were as followsAs Volos ratings system has never been defined beyond a score out of 5, the following descriptions are presumed based on how it used in practice.
Pipes were used to rate the quality of inns, which were defined as any establishment that rented beds to travelers. The rating took into account such things as décor, comfort, service, food, et cetera. The criteria did not include pricing.
An inn received a number of pipes from File1pipe.jpg being the lowest quality to File5pipes.jpg being the highest quality.
Tankards were used to rate the quality of taverns, defined as any public establishment that served alcoholic beverages. The rating took into account such things as atmosphere, watering of the drinks, service, décor, food (if any), et cetera. The criteria did not include pricing.
A tavern received a number of tankards from File1mug.jpg‎ being the lowest quality to File5mugs.jpg being the highest quality.
Coins were used to rate the pricing of all businesses. The rating compared the general prices of goods or services. The rating did not relate to the quality of the goods or services offered.
A business received a number of coins from File1coin.jpg being the least expensive to File5coins.jpg being the most expensive.
Daggers were used to rate the dangerousness of alleyways, courtyards, lanes, et cetera. The rating took into account such things as crime rates and the general propensities of the denizens of the area in question.
An area received a number of daggers from File1dagger.jpg being the least dangerous to File5daggers.jpg being the most dangerous.
Guides to the city of Menzoberranzan in the late 1400s DR also had ratings for various establishments and they used a five-point system inspired by Volos.
Stacks of coins were used to rate the pricing at all businesses, but not necessarily an indication of quality. A business received a number of coin stacks from File1coinstack.jpg being the cheapest to File5coinstacks.jpg being the most expensive.
The quality of an establishment was measured on a scale from File1star.jpg as the worst to File5stars.jpg as the best.
Menzoberranzan was not a safe place in general, but certain locations were rated for their level of threat, from File1skull.jpg for merely unsafe to File5skulls.jpg for extremely deadly.
CategoryArt and literature
CategoryWorks by Volothamp Geddarm
3qhm2ji54gj7mdnv199we0umpv04cgv