0
148119
910826
908483
2023-12-15T015801Z
UnseenServantBot
11660122
/* top */remove BG3 spoiler warning, removed 
910826
wikitext
text/x-wiki
thumb|right|350px|A stylized depiction of druidic wild shapes.
Wild shape was the magical ability that allowed druids to transform themselves into animals, beasts, and other magnificent creatures found across the Realms and beyond.
Druids could take on their wild shape form twice per day, until they rested their body for a limited time. They could only take on the form of a beast that they had seen in person, or were otherwise familiar with. Once transformed, druids could retain their wild shape form for one or more hours, depending on the power they possessed. They could revert to their natural form at will, a process that was near-instantaneous, or when knocked unconscious or slain.
During their wild shape transformation, druids maintained their natural personality and intellectual characteristics. They acquired the same inherent strength and physical characteristics of their new form, and kept any abilities unique to their race, provided their wild shape form could accommodate them.
While most druids could not cast divine magic while in their wild shape form, the most powerful of their ranks developed the means to do so.
Druids that had achieved some means of undeath could not utilize their ability to wild shape, except in uncommon circumstances that involved tapping into necromantic energies. Two such entities were the misanthropic lich Lossarwyn and the Eldathyn ghost named Hullack.
thumb|right|300px|The druid Doric reverting from her wild shape snowy owlbear form.
Most druids could wild shape into beasts of the wild, acquiring additional and more menacing features as they improved their druidic powers. Novice druids could transform into small animals like cats, badgers, spiders, or ravens, or more powerful beasts like wolves and crocodiles. Veteran druids could even take the form of giant eagles.
Avengers could take on additional forms, such as those of a baby wyvern, fire salamander, or even a sword spider.
Some more benevolent druids could take on the form of good beasts or celestial creatures, such as blink dogs, giant owls, pegasi, and unicorns.
While most druids could only take on the forms of various animals and beasts, some developed techniques that went beyond them. These druids learned how to wild shape into the forms of magical beasts, fey beasts, swarms of insects, plants (such as shambling mounds), elementals, aberrations, small- or medium-sized dragons, or even colossal-sized animals.
Druids from different druidic circles could manipulate their wild shape ability in distinct ways. Circle of Spores druids could awaken fungal spores from their body, while old members of the Circle of Stars in the Dalelands took on the form of constellations made manifest.
Druids of the Fangshields could wild shape into the forms of other humanoids, like dwarves, elves, and humans.
thumb|right|350px|"Hes not normally a cat."
Certain followers of Talisid, leader of the celestial guardinals and the Five Companions, gained the ability to wild shape.
Divine initiates of the deity Horus-Re were also capable of wild shaping into the form of a hawk.
Hierophant druids of different deities were able to temporarily transfer their wild shape power to others.
The vermin keepers that dwelt within the Underdark could wild shape into various vermin, such as arthropods, arachnids, insectoids, and their larval forms.
* Belvyre, a Circle of the Land druid who took the form an adorable red-furred cat.
* Galvin, a Harper druid from Mulhorand who could wild shape into a monstrous darkenbeast, and even cast magic while in that form.
* Turlang, the massive treant of the High Forest that could transform into larger animals.
Certain enchanted items—referred to as wild arms and armor―allowed an individual to retain the items beneficial properties, even in wild shape form.
Wild shape amulets allowed druids to wild shape into mightier creatures, as if they possessed more potent druidic powers.
Necklace of Natures Teeth were a variety of jewelry that allowed druids to take on additional wild shape forms, depending on the type of animal whose teeth were used in its formation.
It was said by some that druids power to wild shape originated from an enigmatic nature spirit known as the Primal Beast.
Adventures
Shadowdale The Scouring of the Land • Curse of Strahd
Novels
Red Magic
Comics Books
At the Spine of the World 3
Video Games
Baldurs Gate series
Films & Television
Honor Among Thieves
Organized Play & Licensed Adventures
Elemental Evil (City of Danger • Cloaks and Shadows)
* 
CategoryAbilities
CategoryMagic
mgbzy6mt7ogehzhpalwwdm2s7p3nzg4