0
168248
943034
943033
2024-06-01T193236Z
SunderedShor
45429029
/* Known History */
943034
wikitext
text/x-wiki
Ymir was a giant in the legends and creation myths surrounding the multi-spheric Norse pantheon, as well as among some of the giants in the realm of Jotunheim.The story of this character is told here for context, though with a presentation that leans towards it all being a myth, as the lore doesnt comply with the cosmology presented by the Planescape Campaign Setting, much less that of the Forgotten Realms. Furthermore, one of the cited sources, On Hallowed Ground, acknowledges the existence of Annam All-Father and the rest of the Giant pantheon, thereby further discrediting Ymirs existence.
According to the legends spoken by worshipers of the Norse pantheon, in the earlier days of the multiverse the fiery realm of Muspelheim and its hot gusts of wind clashed with a realm of rime and ice to the north of it, at a deep abyss called the Ginnungagap. There the ice melted, creating earth and bodies of icy water, from which came Ymir and a gigantic cow named Audhumla. The continued heat of Muspelheim made Ymir sweat and, either while he was awake growing strong off of Audhumlas milk or while he was asleep, those droplets of sweat formed into what the Norse faith believed to be the first frost giants.
Four rivers of milk flowed from the udders of Audhumla, which sustained both Ymir and the first giants, while the cow sustained herself on salty rime stones and the salt from ice floes. Her lickings eventually unearthed a giant of a man named Buri. From his came a son, who married a giantess. And from their coupling came three boys, the first of the Aesir, one of whom was Odin. According to some, the giants began waging a war against the Aesir, but most accounts spoke of the Aesir acting first, believing there to be only evil in the hearts of the giants. Whichever way it was told, their conflict always ended with the death of Ymir. Blood gushed forth from Ymirs body, flooding the Ginnungagap where the giants had made their home, drowning all but two. Those two giants managed to escape from the Aesir, swearing eternal vengeance upon their pantheon, and allegedly fostered the rest of the giant race.
These legends conclude by saying that Odin and his brothers harvested Ymirs remains to create the world, with some going into lengthy detail about which parts of him were used to create what. And that from maggots found within his body, the three Aesir were said by those of the Norse faith to have created the Ysgardian dwarves, Ysgardian trolls, elves, and fey.
Ymir was believed by some giants in Jotunheim, such as the frost giant Utgard-Loki, to be the true progenitor of giants held the name "Skull-Throne of Ymir". though in actuality he was the son of Annam All-Father, the true progenitor of the giants.
* 
CategoryFictional characters (in-universe)
CategoryGiants
dbzx39y3mre4djm1ays7vtmf2nw5o7h