0
15649
950012
866349
2024-07-13T082804Z
Irmlar
43650431
/* Worshipers */update ref, replaced Cite LFR/AGLA1-1/Lost Temple of the Fey Gods → Cite organized play/LFR/Lost Temple of the Fey Gods
950012
wikitext
text/x-wiki
The Yuir pantheon was the pantheon of ten deities once worshiped by the primitive tribes of indigenous humans living in the forests of Yuir. These gods came to be associated with the Yuir elves when they established homes within those woodlands after the Crown Wars. After the formation of the Kingdom of Aglarond, the half-elven descendants of the Yuir elves had abandoned these gods in favor of more common human or elvish gods and it was assumed that without worshipers, the deities in this pantheon had ceased to exist. Half of these deities however had long ago been subsumed by various members of the Seldarine.
 Elikarashae  An ascended warrior-deity.
 Magnar the Bear  
 Relkath of the Infinite Branches  An unpredictable forest-god of some kind.
 Simbul  Goddess of "the edge and the moment of choice."
 Zandilar the Dancer  A blue-skinned deity of passionate love and lust. Subsumed by the Mulhorandi goddess Bast.
The Yuir pantheon was worshiped by both the ancient Yuir elves, and some half-elven tribes as of 1368 DR had begun returning to the area of the Sunglade and worshiping the ancient gods honored there.
The Temple of the Yuir Gods was known to have wooden statues of Magnar, Relkath, Elikarashae, and Zandilar. And there was a ring of standing stones bearing inscriptions asking those four and others for aid and protection in the Sunglade.
Around 1368 DR, some of the half-elves whod begun worshiping the Yuir pantheon would even go so far as to claim that those deities were "stirring from their slumber" and would return soon some also said that these returning deities would be hostile to humans and would seek to drive the interlopers from Aglarond. In the same year, the explorer Talyssa reported feeling a presence in the Sunglade when she visited and entered the circle of menhirs.
CategoryPantheons
68tmh9y64dhvzg6ozr56fra9jevwi5v