Avoid planar effects was a spell of the abjuration It was primarily used to provide spellcasters enough time for them to cast stronger and longer-lasting protective spells.
This spell was rather limited to providing temporary relief from or immunity to the natural effects of a plane. This included, but was not limited to, such things as a lack of air, poisonous fumes, temperature extremes, or emanations of negative or positive energy. For example, it could provide some protection against flames on the Elemental Plane of Fire, allow one to breath within the Elemental Plane of Earth, guard against blinding in positive-dominant planes, or guard their life energy in negative-dominant planes. In addition, some plane-specific effects were negated by this spell, such as the freezing cold of Cania and the Para-elemental Plane of Ice, or the deafening effects of Pandemonium.
Avoid planar effects would not provide those affected protection against creatures (native or otherwise), magical spells, and traps. It also provided no protection against the alignment, gravity, and magic traits of each plane of existence, as well as any alterations or restrictions to spells that were imposed by planes and planar pathways. And it provided no protection against the "entrapping" effect that some planes had, like Elysium and Hades.
Lastly, the spell would not provide protection against extreme and nonnatural formations. This included such things as magma
This spell lasted for a standard duration of one minute, amplified by the spellcasters skill. Older versions of the spell could only be cast on a single target, while later versions could effect multiple creatures within a  of the spellcaster depending upon their arcane skills.
This spell required only a verbal component to cast.
Sometime in the 14 century DR, Gheldoin, a duergar sage living in the plane of Acheron, gifted a spellbook containing avoid planar effect to a group of Ravenian adventurers after they impressed him by deciphering the script on an old scroll that detailed a story about the duergar god Laduguer.