Beshaba () was the chaotic evil intermediate deity of accidents, bad luck, misfortune, and random mischief, Lady Doom was the equally acknowledged counterpart of Tymora, Lady Luck, and demanded worship to keep her misfortunes at bay. Most feared her presence, but few would risk not invoking her name and inviting her to any event, lest she take offense and wreak havoc upon all involved.
Beshaba appeared as a young, tall, slim, and beautiful maiden with a wild mane of pure white hair. The woman was pale, had a small waist and voluptuous shape. Her corpse-like pale skin was countered by flushed hues of blue and violet on the cheeks and throat. Beshabas most prominent feature were her yellow-rimmed eyes that were ablaze with insanity. She was adorned in a tight gown that snugly wrapped her body in pitch-black fabric. She wore a tiara of black pearls.
Beshaba was a spiteful, petty and purportedly insane goddess whose actions often seemed random to onlookers. Her primary motivation however was jealousy, specifically towards her sister for her more favorable public reception, and so she demanded equal lip service (if not actual veneration) lest she curse the offenders.
Beshaba, who was said to have gotten Tyches looks where Tymora got her love, was considered to be attractive to many male deities and some have been devoured by her lustful passions. Mortals who perceived the Maid of Misfortune were often destroyed by their lust or driven to maddened loyalty.
She rejected advances from Talos, among other hopefuls.
Beshaba was the twin sister and sworn enemy of Tymora.
She was Tempus lover.
Beshaba was served by alu-fiends who were outfitted with silver breastplates decorated with the goddess symbol - stag horns. Two of her loyal demonic servants were Okim and Airdna.
thumb|The holy symbol of Beshaba.
thumb|Another depiction of a holy symbol of Beshaba
Beshaba was revered more out of fear than out of religious faith. Her doctrine stated that bad luck befell everybody and the only way to avoid it was by worshiping her. She was renowned for being spiteful and malevolent, and her priests manipulated common folk into revering and providing for them by acting mysteriously and playing on morbid fears. Her clerics offered an entreaty for their spells and made sacrifices of alcoholic beverages such as burning brandy or wine. There were two festivals in the calendar of Beshaba, at Midsummer and Shieldmeet. Both were celebrated by revelry and indulgence in food and drink.
Red Wizards of Thay were known to erect shrines to Beshaba near their ritual chambers to ward off bad luck.
Giant black stags with red eyes who could gore an elephant with ease served the goddess of misfortune and inhabited Beshabas Blood Tor.
* Doommasters The best known order of specialty priests, universally feared for the way they reveled in the infliction of misfortune on others.
* Black Fingers Only by Beshabas favor could some evil male clerics, thieves, and fighters join this secret order. They acted as assassins dedicated to their goddesss name.
* Wormlucks In order to spread Beshabas influence and counter the church of Tymora, the Wormlucks (or Priests of Bad Fortune) were created, serving as a focus for calamities that occurred wherever they went, often affecting them as well. Their style of dress was distinctive, forced upon them by the orthodox clergy to avoid confusion with them and for high visibility. They wore bright red robes worn over armor and white hair wigs, which had to be obvious and usually ill-fitting, to honor Beshabas own locks.
thumb|250px|A cleric of Beshaba.
Beshaba came into being when the deity Tyche split during the Dawn Cataclysm, a separate disaster relating to the machinations of Lathander. Tyche was infected with a taint of the dark god Moander and was forced to split into two parts by her friend Selûne. Those two parts, Tymora and Beshaba, sprang out fully formed and immediately fought.
In 1368 DR, Doljust, an aging nobleman, displeased the goddess of ill-luck. Beshaba used her divine magics to twist the mans luck. She watched Doljust as he faced off against a werebat. The creatures cave had two dead toddlers in front of it, which was a grim omen of things to come. The goddess swayed the nobles hound, forcing the beast to pounce at the lycanthrope as Doljust swung his sword. As the man mourned his beloved dying dog, Beshabas vengeance became apparent. Doljust swung his blade one again, at a sound that came from behind. A moment later, another, smaller werebat, cleaved by Doljusts sword, shifted back to its humanoid form. The adolescent werebeast was a young child who whispered "grandfather" as he died in his older relatives arms.
* "Beshabas bad breath!" was a common exclamation, when facing bad luck.