Pereghost and Dhamir Ercals
| staff         = 
| occupants     = Humans, goblinoids, hill giants
| services      = Military fortressSlaving outpostCenter for arcane research
| worship       = Cyric Bane
| basicrefs     = 
| ownertable    = 
| stafftable    = 
| histrefs      = 
| pipes         = 
| tankards      = 
| coins         = 
| daggers       = 
| stars         = 
| coinstacks    = 
| skulls        = 
| quality       = 
| price         = 
| volorefs      = 
| usethe        = 
| useon         = 
| inhabitants   = yes
| locations     = 
| organizations = yes
Darkhold, originally called the Keep of the Far Hills,
The Darkhold was situated on the side of the mountain known as the Grey Watcher, within the Sunset Mountains of the Western Heartlands.Page 21 of Forgotten Realms Adventures erroneously states that Darkhold is located in the western Storm Horns.
The fortress of Darkhold was an imposing keep, that jutted out of the Gray Watcher, with tall spires that ascended into the sky. The structure itself was made of a black stone, not native to the local lands, that had been fused together into a single, unified piece by some unknown means.
Darkhold was huge and could house over a thousand men, and was built to such a scale, that it could have been occupied by giants. It was said that its halls and central courtyard were each large enough to host grand battles.
Tunnels and rooms were bored into the side of the mountain to serve as escape routes and storage chambers. It was speculated that some of the secret tunnels were the home of the ancient sorcerer-turned-lich who claimed Darkhold as her lair.
Darkhold served as the center for Zhentarim-led slave trade in the west, 
Publicly, Zhent representatives of Darkhold claimed that their fortress remained a stalwart defender of trade and commerce passing through the Far Hills.
Zhent patrols from the fortress extended well beyond the Far Hills, as far away as Yellow Snake Pass,—for their mutual benefit.
Within the deepest chambers of Darkhold, Zhentarim agents conducted horrific arcane research and experimentation. They used the fortress to house, and even breed, terrible creatures, such as groundlings renders, deepspawn,
Darkhold was linked to the Zhentarims other two strongholds—Zhentil Keep and the Citadel of the Raven—by powerful portals that were only accessible to the Black Networks Inner Circle.
The title "Master of Darkhold" was bestowed upon the one-time apprentice of Manshoons and member of the Inner Ring of Power, Sememmon. He and his elven apprentice, Ashemmi ran the stronghold for many years. The de facto leader of the troops was the supposed fallen paladin, the Pereghost, and the Chaplain of Bane, Kurth Dracomore, was the spiritual leader.
Other Zhentarim leaders of note included
* Riviar Darkwind, the Pereghosts second in command and leader of the keeps elite fighters, the Storm Watch.
* Nimos Palantor, captain of the keeps archers, the Grey Feathers.
* Otto Otturka, the keeps quartermaster and "leader" of the militia troops, the Darkhold Militia and the Popular Militia.
* Imir Castdie, a self-proclaimed "giant king" who leads a group of some thirty hill giants.
* Angus Materi, the captain of the keeps cavalry, the Outriders.
thumb|right|right|250px|A view of Darkhold and how difficult it is to reach.
As of the 1360s DR, Darkhold boasted a force of 1,000 trained defenders,
Among the other military groups known to fight under Darkholds banner were the Blood Axe Smashers.
The Zhentarim employed wyvern-mounted riders that would lead ambushes on caravans traveling through the nearby trade routes.
Beyond its unique structure and ample military forces, Darkhold was protected by myriad deadly traps, both magical and mechanical in their creation.
According to legend, Darkhold castle was constructed as a summer home for a group of giants of the North, that were members of a "Giant Empire". There was some debate whether or not these giants were actually slaves to Netherese mages. Regardless of the truth, when the Netheril empire fell, the giants continued to occupy Darkhold.
The Giant-Emperors raided the surrounded lands including the Tunlands and the halfling lands of Sunset Vale. They did so until they fell to in-fighting among themselves. It was thought that two rival giant-princes vied for the throne and slew their father, all of the other giant occupants, and eventually each other. Rumors persisted that the princes haunted the castle, whispering conspiracies into any current occupants ears and setting them against each other.
Darkhold remained empty until Othlong Blackhelm, also known as the "Robber Lord", made the keep his home. Angarn Surfyst slew Othlong via treachery and used the keep as a base for his brigands. Known only to history via his self-proclaimed title, the Wolf Knight was a follower of Angarn until he slew him and took his place.
Sarunn Thoon, who was best described in the ballad The Witch of the Far Cold Hill, was originally a captive of the Wolf Knight until she slew him in his bedchamber and took over the helm of the brigands. Mind flayers killed Sarunn and held the brigands in service until they died, but the white dragon Cryomantipelica crushed the mind flayers and laired there until killed by Harristor Thunderswing. Harristor did not occupy the castle and it fell to a roaming beholder and a leucrotta at various times. 
Brigands once again took over the castle at some point after that, but they were slain by an adventuring company called the Wildmen of the North and Brundar Tigerbane renamed the keep Wild Hold and refortified it. Brundar and his followers later fell in battle.
Over the next 200 years, the keep was held by a succession of petty rulers known by a variety of names, including the "Lord Knight of the Far Hills" and the "Duke of Sunset Vale". The Keep of the Far Hills eventually became Darkhold when it was conquered and settled by the lich-queen Varalla.
In the , the Zhentarim invaded and seized control of Darkhold. It also allowed the mage to keep check on the power of nearby Cormyr, preventing them from taking lands further west. 
After the Zhentarim temporarily allied with the armies of Cormyr to turn aside the invading Grand Army of the Tuigan, in the , King Azoun IV decreed that the Purple Dragons would abstain from engaging in any conflicts with the forces of Darkhold for one year.
Darkhold was among the Zhent power centers targeted by the Church of Cyric during the Second Banedeath. Followers of the Mad God successfully drove out, or otherwise converted, all the followers of Bane in Darkhold.
After Zhentil Keep fell in the , Semmemon attempted to maintain order in Darkhold. He began to negotiate a treaty with the drow of Sshamath, an nearby city in the Underdark.
Sememmon proved unsuccessful however. After Bane was resurrected within the Faerûnian pantheon in the , Darkhold was thrown into chaos. Banes followers, along with those of Cyric, vyed for dominance within the Zhentarim. That same year, Sememmon and his consort Ashemmi vanished from Darkhold completely, largely in response to the consolidation of Zhentarim power in the east by rival Fzoul Chembryl. Sememmon was believed to have left some valued items hidden away in Darkhold upon his departure.
Darkholds leadership was taken over by the Pereghost, who commanded its 800 warriors, and Dhamir Ercals, who led the resident clerics of Cyric. Both leaders were servants of Cyric and began preparing for the inevitable holy war against the Banite. Despite their shared faith, the hatred between them was so intense, they spent more time forming assassination plots, rather than fulfilling their duties as Zhentarim leaders.
On Kythorn 7 in the , Zhentilar troops from Darkhold ambushed the caravan of Dabron Sashenstar, but the famed adventurer was able to retreat to Hluthvar. 
Following a series of disasters for the Zhentarim that left both Zhentil Keep and the Citadel of the Raven destroyed, Darkhold emerged as the only major stronghold of the Black Network still standing. It continued to operate as a Zhent stronghold throughout the 15 century DR, serving as a barracks and fortress for their mercenary army.
As of the , Darkhold was the primary headquarters of the reformed Zhentarim. The Pereghost was publicly acknowledged as the sole master of Darkhold, though the Beholder Manxam also appeared to be a member of the strongholds senior leadership. The Pereghost sought to restore the Zhentarim as a military force to be reckoned with in the west.
Due to its unique structure, some believed that Darkhold was formed by elementals summoned by a sorcerer of ancient Netheril, or was assembled during the Dawn Age when giantkind ruled Faerûn. Yet another rumor stated that the Netherese sorcerer that constructed Darkhold was reborn as a lich, and remained interred within its depths as of the early Era of Upheaval.
The symbol of Darkhold, a hillside castle set over a lightning bolt, was used in the minting of some gold coins, of unknown origin.
Darkhold housed a great many slaves and prisoners that were held in bondage by the Zhentarim.
* Asbarode and her band of rogues, Kolvar, Bauble, Sem, and Slim also sometimes operated out of Darkhold.
* Dag Zoreth, one of Cyrics strifeleaders.
* Grigarr, the keeps wyvern-tamer.
* Guin Terabuck was a halfling business man who ran his castle-building scheme out of Darkhold. He was watched and protected by a pair of ogre mages known as "Guins Minders".
* Ilthond, Kadorr, Sashen, and Yarkul were all apprentices under Ashemmis tutelage.
* Iltur, Mairhe, and Sahbonn, also know as "The Three", were Manshoons personal assassins who sometimes worked out of Darkhold.
* Malchior, a selfish and contemptable cleric of Cyric.