The Demonweb Pits, also known as Lolths Web, was originally the 66 layer of the Abyss. The plane was ruled over by Lolth, the primary drow deity every creature there served her whims.
When Quenthel Baenre and her companions visited the Demonweb Pits in the Abyss during the Silence of Lolth in the , they found the realm unusually empty of souls. The realm consisted of black emptiness with an acrid smell and giant spider web. It was very hot there. The Pits were covered in corpses of monsters and demons lying dead and dying, particularly goristros. Lolth dwelt in a black temple suspended in the web. Her stone face covered the entrance.
When Quenthels expedition returned to the same location in the , they found the Demonweb Pits abandoned and in ruins. A gate guarded by abyssal widows led to the new Demonweb Pits.
The new Demonweb Pits was a plane of rocks with chasms and rocky gorges. There were many pits and craters. The land looked dead. There were giant petrified spiders with webbing over everything from the songspiders. There was a distant red sun during the day and eight bright red stars at night.
There was a river of souls flowing to Lolths city, an iron citadel in the Infinite Web. Lolth stood atop a dais in a temple on a pyramid with webs on the walls.
There were a number of geographical features on the plane, including the Plains of Soulfire and the Pass of the Soulreaver at the base of the Mountain of Eyes.
The plane was inhabited by spiders (including songspiders) and chwidencha. The Soulreaver dwelt in the Pass of the Soulreaver and was a gray spectral form, with a bloated serpentine body containing screaming drow souls.
After the Second Sundering, Lolth returned her realm to the Abyss.
- Giismekhan a powerful and favored draegloth of Lolth
- Ozebaw the Unwholesome a dretch demon
All drow gods were originally located in the Demonweb Pits and Lolth claimed to be the queen of them all. 
Lolth resided in a huge iron fortress that moved under its mistresss will on spider-like legs.
Lolths son, Vhaeraun, maintained a realm named Ellaniath where he schemed against his mother almost constantly, an activity Lolth actually encouraged.
Lolths daughter, Eilistraee, also had a place in the Demonweb pits, but her main realm was in Ysgard and later in Arvandor, and she left her realm in the Demonweb Pits almost abandoned.
Kiaransalee had her own citadel made of bones called Thanatos in a desolate area of the plane. It was named for her own layer of the Abyss, Thanatos, which was stolen from her by the reincarnated demon prince Orcus.
Ghaunadaur resided at the very bottom of the pits, surrounded by slime and fungus that caused multicolored lights to appear.
Selvetarm resided with the Spider Queen without maintaining a realm of his own.