| type2e        = 
| refs2e        = 
Elemental aura was a powerful abjuration and evocation spell that protected the caster against one specific element designated during casting and provided certain powers related to the element. This aura moved with the caster.
Specialists in one element only used the version fitting to their element.
An air aura protected the recipient against dangerous gases and air attacks as well as attacks from non-magical missile weapons, and kept creatures from the Elemental Plane of Air at bay. It also provided the ability to fly. An air aura was whitish in color.
An earth aura protected the recipient against the attacks from non-magical metal- or stone-weapons, and kept creatures from the Elemental Plane of Earth at bay. It also allowed one to move comfortably through earth, and create a wall of stone. An earth aura was grayish in color.
A fire aura protected the recipient against fire, both mundane and magical, and kept creatures from the Elemental Plane of Fire at bay. It also allowed one to move comfortably through fire, and create a wall of fire. A fire aura was reddish in color.
A water aura protected the recipient against attacks using cold or water, and kept creatures from the Elemental Plane of Water at bay. It also allowed one to move comfortably through water, and create a wall of ice. A water aura was blueish in color.
Wu jen from Kara-Tur, based on their different world view, knew of a wood aura. It protected the recipient against weapons made of wood, as well as against plants. It also allowed one to move comfortably through vegetation, speak with plants, and heal wounds while having access to soil, sun and water.
This spell required verbal components only.
This spell was not of Netherese origin. In Zakhara, elemental aura was known but not common in the magical community by 1367 DR.
Employed by elementalists, and, more rarely, generalist wizards, elemental aura was also granted to the most powerful sonnlinor (priests of Moradin).
The mysterious sea mage from Huzuz known as the White Agate was known to use elemental aura.