The Evermoors, or Trollmoors, was a region of the Savage Frontier that comprised hills and troughs, partially filled with chilly bogs and rolling landscapes. It was a place that clouded the senses, with dense fog that permeated travelers field of vision and winds that roared within their ears.
In addition to the trolls that famously infested its bogs, the Evermoors were home to a variety of other monstrous creatures. Despite this, a few scattered drovers, shepherds and prospectors managed to eke out a life within.
The Evermoors were a large and unpopulated area 
The Laughingflow river originated deep within the Evermoors, meeting the River Surbrin after it passed though the Surbrin Hills.
The major road that linked Yartar to Everlund, known as the Evermoor Way, passed between the Evermoors and the High Forest.
The moors were formed by large rocky plateaus, sporadically interspersed by very steep small gorges dug by the water. Soil-covered tors and rocks dotted the moors bog water, and small hills and peaks rose from the shroud of fog.
Rich veins of copper, lead, and even gold ran through the moors rocky outcroppings and it was believed that further wealth could be found deep beneath its waters.
The region was the resting place for a number of long-dead dwarves and Netherese humans the landscape was dotted with their burial mounds&mdashsome of which held great magical treasures&mdashas well as the sporadic ruined castle. Beyond that, the southern reaches of the Evermoors housed a number of ruined settlements that humanity had been forced to abandon.
In ages long forgotten, humans attempted to settle the Evermoors, but their civilizations fell into ruin.
In the , an army of orcs and goblins led by ogres emerged from the Evermoors. To stand against them, the Covenant of Neverwinter manipulated the Uthgardt tribes into an alliance that successfully defeated the threat. In the course of the fighting, the Elk tribe were nearly annihilated while defending Flint Rock, reducing the proud tribe to become little more than bandits.
In the First Trollwar of the , trolls poured forth from the Evermoors, and Nimoar led his forces from Nimoars Hold to famously eradicate the trolls in the Evermoors, scorching much of its terrain in the process. Scorch marks from this slaughter remained visible for hundreds of years.
In the Second Trollwar of the , trolls from the Evermoors once again attacked the North, and were once again driven back and eradicated, this time by an alliance between Ahghairon of Waterdeep, Aeroth of Silverymoon, and the brothers Samular Caradoon of Tyr and Renwick Caradoon. The turning point against the trolls was a grueling nine-day struggle that came to be known as the Long Battle.
After the number of troll attacks on the town of Nesmé increased in the , an unknown entity drove them away from the moors.
A community of fog and cloud giants made them home within the Evermoors in the . They were soon followed the next year by a band of hill and frost giants that traveled from the Spine of the World mountains. As was so common throughout the moors history, this migration forced out much of the local troll population.
In the late 15 century DR, the floating castle of Countess Sansuri&mdashknown as Lyn Armaal&mdashhovered high in the skies above the Evermoors. 
Due to the rich amounts of ore found within the moors rocky outcroppings, some expert miners believed that a vast network of caverns ran underneath its murky waters.
Landmarks
* The Old Man, a tor jutting out from the moors that resembled the visage of an elderly man.
* Startop, a peak that came to a distinct point, and on clear nights it caught the moonlight just right so as to resemble a twinkling star.
Settlements
* Griffons Nest, the small village that served as the home of the Griffon tribe of Uthgardt barbarians.
* Hethridge Drop, an abandoned village that had been deserted sometime before 1374 DR.
* Nesmé, while always being threatened by the trolls and barbarians of the moors, this town endured for some time,
The Evermoors were infamous for its infestation of trolls, who were known to ravage the surrounding settlements. As of the late 14 century DR, a two-headed troll by the name of Proffit was known to lead a massive force of trolls and bog blokes.
Five tribes of orcs roamed across the Evermoors during the mid–14 century DR, preying on anyone who traveled along the Evermoor Way. Unlike many orc tribes, these had witch-doctors in place of shamans and worshiped the god Bhaal.
The region was also known to be home to savage ettins, ogres, and various types of giants, including fog, cloud, and hill giants.
The black dragon Rakor once prowled the Evermoors.