ton
Flitters were among the smallest known spelljamming vessels. They were created by elves and used mainly as messengers, fighters, and scouts.
As extremely small vessels, flitters only had enough room for a single occupant to fit uncomfortably and for a tiny cargo hold. They had a modified version of spelljamming helm, adapted to their small sizes, and carried no weapons.
Due to their small size and delicate construction, flitters were not recommended for long space trips.
Like other elven spacecraft, such as armadas, men-o-war, and gadabouts, elven flitters were enchanted fruit from starfly plants that were allowed to grow to maturity without taking root, shaped into their final form thanks to the starflys easily changeable nature. Abandoned flitters, usually the result of failed missions, could be found extremely overgrown, their wings deformed and curled, but it was possible for them to be trimmed back into shape.
Flitters were very useful as messenger ships dispatched between elven fleets separated by even large distances, even in different crystal spheres. Their small sizes also made them excellent scout and spy ships.
thumb|left|230px|Size comparison of a flitter and a man-o-war.
Large elven armadas carried flitters that were stripped of their helms and equipped with simpler engines. Those versions were not capable of interplanetary flight, instead being used as short-range fighters. Elves had a strict policy of never allowing a ship with a spelljamming helm to land on a planet, so depowered flitters were the only elven ships allowed to land. For that reason, they were frequently employed as landing craft.
A variant of depowered flitter known as a firewind was loaded with flammable material and was designed to crash onto its target to set it on fire. This suicide ship was not used since the First Unhuman War.
In the mid‒14 century DR, the elven admiral Icarus commanded a large fleet of elven spacecraft that contained 50 flitters, among other types of spelljammers. Icarus operated exclusively in Realmspace.
Around the same period, the government of Wa designed the tsunami and the locusts with the specific purpose of developing a fleet that could match the might and versatility of the armadas and flitters.
* Erevans Clutch, a flitter crewed by the drow Dostrealt, who had abandoned himself from the crew of an armada after falling victim to a curse.