Gnomes, or the Forgotten Folk as they were sometimes known, were small humanoids known for their eccentric sense of humor, inquisitiveness, and engineering prowess. Having had few overt influences on the worlds history but many small and unseen ones, gnomes were often overlooked by the powers that be, despite their craftiness and affinity for illusion magic. Gnomes were present in nearly every human city and most caravan-stop villages where other cultures and non-human races were at least tolerated.
A male forest gnome.
Gnomes were very small compared to most other races, with an average height of  and a weight of . Gnomes were generally larger and heavier than halflings, though forest gnomes tended to be smaller than halflings, being  in height and  in weight. This led some scholars to erroneously classify all gnomish races as "smaller than the Hin".
While halflings were commonly said to resemble short humans, gnomes were more comparable with elves, with whom they shared pointed ears and high cheekbones, or even dwarves, due to their tendency to grow beards and live underground. Many gnomes had a more feral appearance than either, however, with hair that often sprouted from their heads in odd directions.
The skin of gnomes ran in hue from reddish tans to earthy browns or even shades of gray, with exact hue somewhat dependent upon the ethnic origin of a gnome. Similarly, gnomish hair varied wildly in color from blond and brown to more exotic colors like white, orange, or even green. Gnomish eyes were often—particularly in individuals who were native to the Feywild—glittering black or blue, although more natural eye colors were also known to the race.
In terms of clothing, gnomes often preferred those with earthen tones or made of leather. They similarly preferred jewelry with earthen tones.
Gnomes were an intelligent
Gnomes were naturally witty and jovial, and they preferred to overcome obstacles through cunning and innovation rather than the obvious way. Ever curious, gnomes were drawn to adventure more often by a desire to see the world than out of greed or the hope of fame. It was this curiosity, along with their cunning and witty repartee, that made gnomes both entertaining friends and adept arcane spellcasters or scholars.
Most gnomes loved gems, particularly rubies, but they were not avaricious. The gnomes that most people encountered were content to raise goats, grow potatoes, and live a life of honest hard work.
Gnomes who left home to seek an adventurers life were rare, given the races famed shyness and lack of ambition. Those that did were motivated by a number of factors, but the impulsive race was often driven by curiosity more than anything else. Many gnomes felt no more rationale for adventuring than simply to explore the world that surrounded them. A few, the more orderly ones that is, sought out adventure for more innately noble purposes, such as to help others, but these gnomes were rare. Other gnomes were driven to become adventurers by little more than simple avarice, as adventuring was often seen as a quick, if unsafe, avenue for wealth. Adventuring was not necessarily a welcomed lifestyle among gnomes, despite the curiosity that filled the whole race, and sometimes was, in fact, seen as a betrayal of sorts to a gnomes clan.
Gnomes were a naturally intelligent and creative race, with a charm about them unusual for other humanoids. Gnomes also had a strong affinity for all things magical. In particular they had a natural grasp of the arcane, innately possessing the ability to cast the cantrip ghost sound and illusion, both for the purpose of using it for themselves as well as seeing through other attempts at it. After the Spellplague, gnomes innately were able to use the fade away power to disappear temporarily from sight and additionally had a reflexive tendency to take cover and hide when suddenly endangered. Other gnomes were capable of casting dancing lights.
Gnomes were talented illusionists, with a natural grasp of the arcane. Regardless of their other talents, all gnomes were capable of casting a cantrip or two and had the capacity to disappear from sight if they wished. Gnomes were well-suited to all forms of arcane training, particularly that of a bard, sorcerer, warlock, or wizard.
Gnomes were known to wear a wide range of armor and shield types into combat. Including leather, studded leather, ring mail, and chainmail. In terms of weapons they most commonly fought with clubs, short bows, short swords, slings, and spears.
Like other races, gnomish culture varied based on region and ethnicity, but a few characteristics were common to most gnomes. Among virtually all gnomes, great value was placed on ones ability to avoid trouble and stay out of the way of others. Childrens games often involved elements of stealth and, among adults, drawing attention to ones self was considered a breach of etiquette. Most gnomes tried to remain inconspicuous and quietly left the scene of a fight. The few legends of gnomish heroes were not of powerful warriors but of subtle tricksters, who sneaked past or tricked their opponents rather than vanquishing them in combat. This in part came from the long-standing issue gnomes had faced, namely their miniscule size compared to larger predators or enemies such as the fomorians of the Feywild, whom few gnomes could hope to stand toe to toe with in a fair fight.
Gnomes had an intricate society based on their love of all kinds of arts, pranks, and their long lives. Gnomes loved indulgence, and they made most celebrations on a grand scale.
Gnome weddings lasted for a week, even though gnomes didnt view love the same way humans did. If love began to go wrong between a couple they might break up, believing it was simply a prank by Garl Glittergold.
Their society was based on art almost all gnomes took up some form of art, whether music, painting, cooking, building, or any other form that was considered creative by the time they came of age, or else they sponsored others.
When living among other races, particularly humans, in an urban environment, gnomes were often shopkeepers or worked as everyday blacksmiths (leaving the fancy armor and weaponsmithing to the dwarves). They also worked with brass, bronze, tin, and pewter, casting and etching practical household items. Other occupations included gemcutters, mechanics, sages, or teachers, the last in particular being a highly valued profession by human employers, who knew that a single gnome could tutor multiple generations.
A gnome with a badger companion.
In the Feywild, as well as some places on Toril, gnomes typically lived in earthen burrows and dug-out homes akin to those used by badgers, foxes, or rabbits. As such they were fond of these small animals, feeling a sense of natural kinship with them. And much like these animals, gnomes had an aversion to danger that made them naturally inclined to hide away if able. Thus many gnomish homes were carefully hidden by magic or other methods.
Gnomes most often liked to keep badgers, giant badgers, and wolverines as guard animals in their lairs.
Gnomes primarily lived in wooded, hilly landscapes, most often underground. They typically built earthen homes with cellars and escape tunnels. Above-ground structures were often round and made of stone and thatch. Generally speaking, though, gnomes enjoyed the fresh air a good deal more than other subterranean races such as dwarves or drow and rarely burrowed very deep, spending a great deal of time on the surface. Gnomish homes or communities were generally well-hidden, making it difficult for unwelcome visitors to find them. Within, gnomish houses were warm and comfortable, akin to the burrows of small mammals.
Gnomes were found widely throughout the world, though rarely in large numbers. Small communities were most commonly found in the Western Heartlands, Elturgard, and along the coastline of the Shining Sea. Other gnomes, notably the svirfneblin or deep gnomes, were found in the Underdark and were even more secretive than other gnomes, maintaining their distance from other races except for dwarves, with whom they were careful to maintain polite relationships for the purpose of protection.
The majority of gnomes were found in Lantan, the only land in which gnomes lived in great numbers and the closest they had to a homeland.
The Feydark was home to a large number of gnomes. Their physical appearance differed from their surface-dwelling cousins, having larger eyes and skin so pale it appeared almost translucent. Feydark gnome culture was also quite different from that of surface-dwelling gnomes. They were known for their violent tendencies and gallows humor, while madness and savagery were considered positive personality traits. Feydark gnomes were also extremely xenophobic.
The primary gnome deity of the gnomish pantheon was Garl Glittergold. Other deities of the pantheon were Baervan Wildwanderer, Gaerdal Ironhand, and Urdlen. These gods were all themselves, at least after the Spellplague, members of the Seldarine, the fey pantheon headed by Corellon Larethian.
Gnome funeral rites often employed cremation. It destroyed the body, (preventing desecration), and released the spirit to find its own way.
Most gnomes spoke Common as well as their own language, Gnomish. Some were known to be capable of speaking Dwarvish, Halfling, Goblin, and Yipyak. Others were even said to be capable of speaking with burrowing mammals.
right|A gnome of Lantan.
As the human population in Faerûn grew and gnomes became further marginalized, younger generations began questioning the wisdom of their forebears in taking a deliberately passive role in world events. This attitude was seemingly encouraged by the appearance of Gond, the god of invention, among the gnomes of Lantan during the Time of Troubles in 1358 DR. As a result, a gradual trend emerged of more and more gnomes leaving their reclusive homes to travel the world. Many rock and deep gnomes went on to take up the life of a lorefinder, seeking to uncover lost Netherese magic their fore-bearers had taken with them in their ancient emigrations from Netheril, in hopes to use such magic to bolster the position of the gnomish race. But along the way, such lorefinders uncovered many horrors thought lost long ago. But as always, gnomes had an aversion to becoming a part of anything "too big." Thus many others scattered into smaller, like-minded communities instead of attempting to direct larger ones.