Imbue undead with spell ability was an arcane necromancy spell that transferred one spell from the caster to one undead creature.
This spell took ten minutes to cast and the caster had to touch the undead creature in order to transfer a spell. The oldest version of this spell did not place any restriction on the type or level of spell that could be imbued, but the wizard had to first cast imbue undead with spell ability and then immediately cast the spell to be transferred, with all the required verbal, somatic and material components, which was then captured by this spell and given to the target undead creature. The caster was then free to prepare new spells to replace this spell and the one that was imbued. The newer version of this spell could only transfer spells that were lower level than this spell and the caster could not prepare a new spell to replace the imbued spell until the undead creature had discharged the spell or was destroyed. However, no verbal, somatic, or material components were required for imbuing the spell.
When discharged, the imbued spell was cast instantly from the undead creature with no other actions or materials needed and with the same characteristics (range, duration, etc.) as if it had been cast by the wizard. For the earliest version of this spell, the wizard chose the trigger conditions and target (if applicable) for the imbued spell. In the newer version, the wizard gave instructions to the undead creature on when to discharge the imbued spell. A particular undead creature could only be imbued with one spell at a time.
The newer version of this spell required verbal and somatic components, as well as a small scroll of paper inscribed with the name of the spell being imbued written in ink obtained from a squid. The oldest version only required the verbal, somatic, and material components of the spell being imbued. Both versions required the caster to touch the undead creature during the casting of this spell.
This spell was found in the tome "Studies in Death", written down by the lich Kyristan. It was later published in "Volos Guide to All Things Magical" and became generally known to the magical community.