The locathah ( ), also known as fish-men, gill-men or kaparl ("slave" in the kuo-toan language), were a race of fish-like humanoids that lived in both the Inner Sea of Faerûn and the wider Outer Sea.
All locathah had fish-like heads with toothless mouths, small fins where ears would normally be, and large eyes that were either all-black or all-white. The latter coloration was viewed as a good omen. Instead of hair, they had a dorsal fin and flukes. Their height was comparable to humans, standing on average  tall and weighing in at . The fine scales covering their bodies that ranged from olive green to ochre in color, although those on their stomachs ranged from sea green to pale yellow. Additionally, locathah had a stripe near their egg sacs, the coloration of which could distinguish whether they were male or female. For female locathah, this stripe bore the same coloration as their stomach scales.
The reason for their enslavement, in their minds, was that their enemies took advantage of periods when the locathah were at odds with their allies or each other and thus, fragmented. As such, they now live in tight-knit communities and, if others prove to be their allies, the locathah will prove firm in their allegiance, trying everything in their power to keep such alliances together. Despite said history of slavery, even when treated with the utmost cruelty, they do not harbor angry or vengeful feelings towards their former captors, though they will do anything within their power short of threatening harm to their fellows to escape if enslaved by someone else. They dont believe that is shameful to be enslaved, but it is to do nothing about the situation.
It is easy to unintentionally offend a locathah as they have many unwritten rules of etiquette. If approached by a creature wielding a weapon, a locathah will always either flee or engage in combat. They do not like to be touched by other species, interactions with others are always done at a distance. They commonly lead creatures unfamiliar with their territory by their wake-currents.
A locathah, riding an aquatic beast.
Locathah territories could typically be found in warm coastal sea waters. They were perfectly happy living in deeper waters, but their former captors tended to live in such places, thus locathah tribes acclimated themselves to living in shallows instead.
In the Inner Sea, locathah nomads lived south of Impiltur and west of Thesk, in a region they called the Bymmalyn Hills. By the 14 century DR, some had moved to more permanent settlements on the slopes of the Hmur Plateau, using it as a natural barrier against their ancient foes, the kuo-toa and the morkoths. At one point locathah also lived within the Alamber Deeps, but the sahuagin there hunted them to extinction, garnering a life long hatred between the two.
A particularly large and advanced civilization of locathah lived beneath the waves of the Crowded Sea, between Rogosto and the island of Afyal. Small communities of locathah could also be found in some of Zakharas port cities.
The locathah had their own own racial language, but were also commonly known to speak Aquan. Additionally, the locathah of the Inner Sea spoke Serusan, a pigeon trade language that incorporated aspects of their own language.
thumb|440x440px
Locathah primarily worshiped their creator-god, Eadro, although their manner of reverence was more dogmatic and secretive than that of the merfolk. They were very protective of their rituals, keeping them from the view of outsiders in all but instances of spellcasting. Their clergy were exclusively male. Their worship of Eadro centered around a belief that their bodies and the centuries of enslavement they suffered under the hands of the various races of Serôs were both punishments by Eadro for allowing corruption of their faith. Only through devout faith, prayer, and exclusive worship of Eadro could they one day be redeemed.
By the late 14 century DR, some locathah clerics turned away from the dogmatism of the Eadro faith and converted to other, more liberal religions that were being practiced in Myth Nantar. Regardless of which god they followed, these clerics espoused that the locathah should be accepting of the bodies and abilities that Eadro gave them.
In ancient times, one group of locathah living between the Zakharan mainland and the islands of Sahu and Afyal worshiped the evil god Thasmudyan.This is the case if Land of Fate and The Complete Book of Necromancers are both assumed to be accurate. It is not clear if this was intended by the authors, as it is in contrast to the behavior of the locathah described elsewhere.