Mindlink, originally known as simply telepathy, was a psionic power of the telepathy discipline. It established a limited mental bond between the manifester and another being.
The manifester established a mental bond with a target creature. It let them communicate telepathically, even without a common language between them. It granted no other special power or influence over the target. Communication was two-way and wordless. It was not mind-reading a participant received only thoughts the other wished to send.
On manifesting, the target originally needed to be in sight or well-known to the user, in which case they needed to be on the same plane and within one light-second (186,000 miles, or 300,000 kilometers). The telepathic waves could travel further only if both participants were telepathic. After the Time of Troubles of 1358 DR, this range was effectively unlimited. After the Year of Wild Magic, 1372 DR, the target just needed to be an open-minded or willing sentient being no more than 25 feet (7.6 meters) away, or further for more experienced manifesters, and thereafter it would function over any distance provided they remained on the same plane. If an experienced manifester spent more psionic energy, they could affect an unwilling creature or an additional creature, provided all were within 15 feet (4.7 meters) of each other.
Originally, it lasted only while one concentrated, but later it lasted at least 10 minutes, or longer for more experienced manifesters.
After 1358 DR, mindlink was a prerequisite for various other powers, but this was not necessary after 1372 DR.
Early versions required an initial contact.
Manifesting the power produced the standard mental display.
The owner of a psicrystal could communicate with it as if via mindlink, thanks to their telepathic link.
The anchored navigation power granted a mindlink with a designated creature as part of its function.
Mindlink could be learned by people with wild talents and by psionicists, and later by psions specialized as telepaths.
Mindlink was known by haun. In psionic terms, the mindlink power was also possessed by aboleths, couatls, ki-rins,
* Gayrlana, "Lady Bloodsword", leader of the Mindulgulph Mercenary Company.
* Ryvvik Dlardrageth, daemonfey psionicist and third-in-command of House Dlardrageth
* Saryndalaghlothtor, "Lady Gemcloak", a crystal dragon