Moonweb was a divine abjuration spell granted to devout followers of Selûne the Moonmaiden. It could protect one touched creature or one touched door, window, or opening from harm or intrusion for a period of time.
The earlier version of this spell wove a web of moonlight around a touched creature or across a portal that lasted for at least three hours (longer for more experienced casters) or until it took sufficient damage from magic weapons, or a successful dispel magic was able to overcome it. At a minimum, the spell covered  (larger for more experienced casters) or one creature that could fit inside a cocoon of this surface area.  Interaction with an anti-magic shell or any of the prismatic spells (e.g., prismatic spray, prismatic wall, prismatic sphere, and so on) immediately canceled both spells in a scintillating burst of harmless blue sparks and purple lighting that traced the web as it collapsed.
The moonweb was opaque to those on the outside, except for priests of Selûne and the goddess herself, but it did not prevent detection by locate spells (e.g., locate creature, locate object, and so on). Those on the inside could see through it with no impediment. Objects and creatures that attempted to enter the protected area or attack the moonweb itself were immediately rebuffed in the opposite direction they contacted the web, even if they were contained in a globe of invulnerability. Weapon attacks were redirected back upon the attacker with no degradation, and magic attacks were reflected back on the caster, but this also applied to those protected by the moonweb. This spell also prevented access via other dimensions, like teleport, and dimension door—the moonweb absorbed the energy of these types of spells before they could complete.
Magic weapons were able to damage the moonweb before they struck back at their wielders—the greater the enchantment, the more damage each hit caused—until the spell finally collapsed.
The caster received a mental image of anyone or anything that destroyed the moonweb or attempted to pass through it, as long as the caster was on the same plane.
The later version of this spell was fixed at  tall and could be shaped in a cylinder  in diameter around a willing creature or as a  flat sheet across a door, window, or other opening. Creatures and objects on the outside could not pass through the front of the barrier but anyone or anything behind the barrier could pass through it. This version did not reflect spells, prevent inter-dimensional travel, nor rebound attacks, it was merely virtually invulnerable. The duration was half that of the earlier version (one-and-a-half hours, minimum). Beings and things behind the barrier could see through it but had full cover and total concealment from those on the other side.
The early version of this spell required verbal and somatic components, including a touch by the caster. The material component was a strand of gray or silver hair from any creature and a drop of holy water. The later version also had verbal and somatic components, but only required the use of the casters divine focus that was not consumed in the casting.
This spell was recorded in the Moonweb a "book" of spells in the form of four silver rings that was sacred to the church of Selûne.
Inside the House of the Moon temple, any Selûnite priest of sufficient rank could freely conjure a moon blade among other spells.