The Nagawater was a large, deep freshwater
A line of buoys lit with continual flame spells marked the boundary between the north half of the lake that humans inhabited and the southern part left for the nagas.
thumb|Nagawaters 275x275px
The Naga Plains occupied the lands between the Golden Plains and the Nagawater. West of the Nagawater laid the Serpents Holding, a band of plains inhabited by nomads, nagas, and spitting snakes. The northern parts of the lake laid in the region known as the Nagalands.
The Nagaflow river fed Nagawater, bringing waters from the depths of the Chondalwood. The Nagawater was connected to the Deepwash lake and eventually with the Vilhon Reach via the Wintercloak River.
The lake is inhabited by a community of water and guardian nagas, giving its name justice. The naga community was affiliated with the Order of the Grand Snakemaster and advised by the orders Elder Serpent Ashassae, who offered an invaluable but corrupt council in attempts to sway the community to Set worship. The nagas also had an agreement with the humans of Ormpetarr, who left the serpent creatures in peace to their part of the lake, in exchange for the nagas filling the citys nets with ample lake fish. Nagas of the Nagalands lacked official government. By the late-14 century DR, banelar nagas started joining the naga community of the Nagawater, and their number continued to grow steadily. The upper reaches of Nagaflow were used by the region nagas as a spawning ground.
The western banks of the lake were the home of mlarraun, also known as "spitting snakes."
thumb|right|Ormpetarr and surrounding environs circa 335x335px
In the century that followed the calamity of the Spellplague, Vilhon Reach was devastated by wild magics, becoming known as the Vilhon Wilds. By the , the Nagawaters lake was already consumed by the Vilhon Wilds. However, that disastrous change of the landscape was not permanent. With the Spellplagues end and the goddess of magic Mystras return during the Second Sundering, that started in the , the lands of Vilhon Reach were restored to Toril, damage done to the world was healed, and wild magics of the Plaguewrought Land – wiped by the goddesss hand.
*Greymantle, a Chondathan city built to supply the nation with horses.
*Nagarr, a fortified fishing and sheepherd village on the western shores of the Nagawater.
*Ormpetarr, the capital of Sespech, built on north-eastern shore of the lake.
*Order of the Grand Snakemaster, a snake cult of Set worshipers that was trying to spread the deity worship to the naga population of the lake.
*Shadiar Brada-min, a non-evil Nobanion-worshiping Lion tribe who roamed the northern banks of the Nagawater, led by Ibrym, son of Talduth in the late-14 century DR.
*Ariadne, a sea elf mother of Joshua Ariadne, a mage of Nagarr, who called the Nagawater her home.
*Some stories claimed that dark nagas dwelt in the tall grass of the Naga Plains.
*The exact population of water nagas in the lake remained unknown. The locals claimed tho had never seen more than six nagas in the same place at the time however, to human eyes, all water nagas looked the same, and no local was ever reckless enough to ask about the creatures identities.
Jhaamdath edited.jpg|A map of Nagawater circa -4000 DR.
Nagawater.png|A 14 century DR map of the Nagawater.
FRMare au naga
CategoryLakes
CategoryLocations in Sespech
CategoryLocations in the Vilhon Reach
CategoryLocations in Interior Faerûn
CategoryLocations in Faerûn
CategoryLocations on Toril
CategoryLocations in the Nagalands
CategoryLocations
CategoryBodies of water
s1upiaraqs5mxb8e2yuv4frqu6o9bge