Prespers moonbow was an evocation spell that brought forth a few small glowing orbs that could be sent to shock one or more targets.
This spell could be found in different versions as it evolved over the years. All versions produced one to four "moon motes" that resembled dancing lights but packed the punch of ball lightning. The caster had to send at least one of these motes toward a target at each opportunity during combat or else all remaining motes vanished and the spell was ended. Each mote could have a different target and it only took the briefest moment for the caster to fire the moonbow, so he or she could do other things, including cast other spells, as long as at least one mote was launched at a target each action. The more motes that were summoned, the less electrical damage each mote was able to deliver.
The principle drawback of the earlier versions of this spell was the requirement that it be cast at night when the caster could see the moon in the sky, so daylight, cloud cover, or being indoors prevented this spell from working. (but slower than a falcon), and follow it around corners and past obstacles, ignoring invisibility, mirror image, blur, etc., until it reached its target and struck as if the caster were in melee with a significant magical bonus.
The earliest version of Prespers moonbow allowed the caster to choose the number of motes and they would hover in front of the caster until launched
In addition to verbal and somatic components, the different versions had various material components. The latest version required only a small moonstone. The earlier versions required a piece of a cobweb, a scrap of fur, and an amber rod. The earliest version allowed a glass or crystal rod instead of amber.
Prespers moonbow was originally published in the "Tome of the Covenant" to commemorate the founding of the Covenant in the Year of the Covenant, 673 DR. The second version was later published in "Volos Guide to All Things Magical" and became generally known to the magical community.