Prismals wormhole was a very rare arcane spell that allowed communication, and possibly travel, between two locations where the caster and the spells subjects were located.
Prismals wormhole allowed the "caller" – the spells subject, to summon a wormhole that was not limited by planes or distance. The only limit for the spell was imposed by the Domains of Dread, in which case, the spell allowed travel only one way – into the Domains.
The wormhole that appeared on the callers side was an illusory man-sized figure of stained glass that appeared harmless and could not cause harm. It only ever says two lines "Please wait for the wizard," and "Sorry, the wizard is busy and chooses not to appear." On the casters side, the illusion appeared as two objects a stained glass humanoid and a door knocker. The stained glass illusion could take on the appearance of the caller if the caster willed it to.
If the caster refused to accept the callers summoning, the wormhole collapsed, exhausting one of the spells activations. If the caster wanted to be transported to the caller, all they needed to do it touch the door knocker and turn it again on the other end to return. The caster could also use the knocker on their end to open a gate, allowing the caller to pass through the wormhole to the caster. No one could pass through the wormhole but the caster or the caller unless they were accompanied by the caster themselves.
The wormhole could only remain open for one minute per arcane mastery level, staying open longer as the caster grew in power. While the wormhole was open, the caster could cast any spell, except for dispel magic through it. Each casting allowed for the number of wormhole activations equal to the casters magic mastery.
The spell required verbal, somatic, and material components to be cast, and the process of casting took two hours. Prismals wormholes material components included several pine planks, a brass door knocker, and a pint of red, blue, and yellow pigment or dye each. The planks were laid on the ground forming a door frame, the knocker was placed where the doors knocker would be, and lastly, the pigments were sprinkled on the object as the casting commenced as the secret word that activated the spell was woven into the verbal casting process.
In order for the mage to cast the spell, they had to remain in seclusion, as the preparation required absolute concentration and complete silence. Without that, the casting had a coin toss of a chance to fail.
After being cast, the spell was activated by the subject uttering a secret word given to them by the caster. Most common secret word was the casters name.
Prismals wormhole spell was a creation of the mysterious undying mage of Ravens Bluff named Prismal the Outrageous. It was developed sometime before the late 14 century DR. It was recorded in Prismals Pocket Library, Vol.IX until the shops destruction in the late 14 century DR.
At some point, one of Prismals spellbooks that contained the spell left Toril. A copy of the spell found its way into the spellbook called Khahkhts Book of Jokes on the world of Nehwon.