The scorpion was a deadly spelljammer originally constructed and operated by orcs. These solid ships represented the pinnacle of orcish spacefaring technology before they were almost completely wiped out by elven fleets
In addition to its ranged weaponry of one ballista and two catapults, the scorpions main weapons were its ram-claws. Unique to this ship design, ram-claws were operated directly by the ships captain and the second in command via a series of levers set in front of the spelljamming helm. When attacking another ship at close range, it was possible for the ram-claw to grab it and strike at it multiple times, dealing devastating damage to the ships hull and any creature caught in the claws grasp.
Construction, maintenance, and repair of ram-claws was expensive and required large amounts of metal. Some attempts were made to attach ram-claws to other ship types, with only limited success.
A crew of 24 individuals was sufficient to operate a scorpion at full efficiency, including all its armaments. The ships air envelope was capable of supporting a maximum compliment of 60 occupants without becoming compromised.
Typically, less than half of all scorpions were powered by minor helms. When crewed by orcs, the helm would be occupied by an orc shaman or a hired human mage. More frequently, these ships were powered by multiple lifejammers that fed on the life force of their captives.
Once a common sight in space, scorpion ships were essentially exterminated by the elven fleets during the First Unhuman War and shortly thereafter. Together with the kobold angelships, the goblin-made porcupines, and the ogre mammoths, nearly half of all existing scorpions were destroyed during the first decade of the conflict and the rest was hunted down in subsequent years. Most of the few surviving scorpion ships were then disassembled or stripped down for parts, as it had become too dangerous to be caught flying any of these ships.
* The Gauntlet, the flagship of the company of the same name that was dedicated to eradicating slavery in Realmspace, acting primarily in the Tears of Selûne under the command of Kyriel Alathar Pellinore in the mid‒14 century DR.
In the years after the First Unhuman War, it was speculated that surviving orcs continued building scorpions on scattered worlds. Other races were also rumored to be capable of copying the design and built their own scorpions.