| level3e       = 
| refs3e        = 
| reversible2e  = 
| school2e      = Conjuration/SummoningUniversal (province)Inventive
| spheres2e     = 
| level2e       = 
| type2e        = 
| refs2e        = 
| reversible1e  = 
| school1e      = 
| level1e       = 
| refs1e        = 
Sepia snake sigil (originally called Hersents sigil
After ten minutes of preparation and casting, this spell left the invisible symbol of a serpent on the page of a text, provided said text contained enough words. The symbol would remain hidden on the page until triggered. Triggering the sigil involved simply reading the text of the page. It was not enough to simply see the words they must have been read.
A triggered snake sigil would become visible, and the sepia-colored image would spring from the page, as if a living snake, and attempt to bite the reader. If the sepia snake succeeded in biting the reader, he or she would suddenly become enveloped in a powerful, amber-colored field of force that would immobilize and preserve the target in suspended animation. If the snake missed its prey, it would loudly burst into a cloud of dull brown smoke and a flash of light.
A suspended victim would remain in such a state, not aging, breathing, moving, or requiring any physical necessities for six days or longer, depending on the power of the caster. Alternatively, the caster could release a victim from the magic suspension by command.
It was possible to harm or kill an entrapped victim of a sepia snake sigil, but an injured victim would neither worsen nor recover until the effects of the spell were ended.
A page with a sepia snake sigil would glow with a magical aura if magic were used to detect its presence, but such magics would not reveal the presence of the sigil. The sigil could be removed, however, by the dispel magic spell or by using magic to erase the whole page of text.
In addition to verbal and somatic components, the spell typically required powdered amber valuing at least 500 gold pieces, the scale of a snake, and a tiny bit of spores from a mushroom as a material component.
The spell was invented by the Netherese arcanist Hersent in .
In the month of Eleasis, of the , the city of Ravens Bluffs Ministry of Art and Wizards Guild jointly declared it illegal to cast sepia snake sigil within city limits due to a raging unnatural storm at the time called the Soulstorm. In addition to threatening arrest for those that broke this decree, it was declared that breaking this prohibition would result in a permanent expulsion from either organization.
In the late 14 century DR, the shopkeeper Xara Tantlor defended her shop with snake sigils hidden among the scrolls she had for sale.