Snowshoes was a divine magic spell available to priests and rangers of Auril, the Frostmaiden. It allowed one creature to walk over snow and ice at the same rate as if it were normal ground. An earlier version known as snow boots had much the same effects but shorter duration.
While casting this spell, the caster had to touch the creature being targeted for this spell to take effect. Assuming the target did not willfully resist, they could travel over icy or snowy terrain without any hindrance of movement typically associated with ice, snow, or heavy snow. In addition, this spell significantly helped prevent slips, falls, and other mishaps that could occur when attempting skills or maneuvers requiring balance or dexterity on ice and snow. It also helped prevent the recipient from cracking ice or falling through already cracked ice caused by their weight.
For beginning casters, this spell lasted one hour or until it was dismissed, whichever came first. Higher level casters could make this effect last many hours.
While under the influence of this spell, creatures treading over ice and snow were no easier to track than they were walking on dry, solid ground.
An earlier version of this spell, known as snow boots, created a cushion of air around the feet or two lowest extremities of the target creature. This granted the weight distribution effect to allow movement over ice or snow, but at a slightly reduced speed. It also made the recipient immune to being knocked over by a sideways thrusting attack. This version of the spell did not prevent sinking in water but did slow the descent to a one-minute trip. The duration of this version of the spell was measured in minutes, not hours.
Only verbal and somatic components were required to cast this spell.
This spell was believed to be recorded in a holy book of Auril called Revelations of the Icedawn and was granted to her clerics, druids, and rangers. Druidic followers of Auril could learn this spell as an orison.
The earlier version known as snow boots was one of the spells recorded in the Silver Supplicant, a "book" in the form of a silver statuette of a priestess of Auril.