Spiral of degeneration was a mind-affecting quest spell, a rare variation of divine magic, granted by the deities of the ancient Netherese pantheon Jergal, Kozah, Moander, Shar, Tyche.
Spiral of degeneration was potent magic that affected every creature hostile to the casting cleric within  radius and its effects lasted for an entire hour. The spell could only be cast with its radius, including the caster. Depending on the deity or patron who was granted powers to the caster, the spiral was activated in one of its two variations "thought" and "chaos."
The "chaos" variation affected the fabric of reality, making magic items seize operations due to laws of magic being rewritten for the spells duration. The "thought" variation affected the minds of individuals, changing, blocking, and distorting their thoughts. This led to them being unable to effectively use enchanted items for the spells duration. Both variations achieved the same result but through different means.
Once the spell was cast, the effects of the spiral of degeneration had a coin-toss of a chance of being triggered or re-occur every minute. Each time degeneration occurs, all spellcasters within the area of effect forget one memorized spell per complexity level. These spells could be normally re-learned once the spellcaster was allowed to rest and study. The second effect of each swirl of degeneration spiral affected magical items in several ways. Each degradation weakened an enchantment by one. Magical items with stored charges were drained of a number of spells stored between one and ten. Enchanted items that did not enhance armor or damage had a chance of becoming mundane. All potions lost their magic, and scrolls lost a random scribed spell. Unlike other types of magic items, potions and scrolls were affected by the spell permanently.
The "chaos" various spell randomly moved its area of effect while active, and the "thought" version remained steady. Additionally, no means of magical communication was possible while in the spells area of effect.
The spell dated to the days of ancient Netheril.