Stealsteel was either an arcane alteration spell or psionic psychoportation power developed by the amethyst dragon Eldenser, the Worm Who Hides in Blades, to mentally occupy countless blades. 
Releasing their spirit from their body (which could cause some loss of health), the caster became a misty, wraith-like figure. It could fly and was incorporeal, but was unable to hold or manipulate items, make attacks, or use any other powers. They were vulnerable to spells and powers that affected disembodied spirits and blocked possession, such as magic circle against evil. They could remain in this state only briefly before being forced back to their body—eighteen seconds for the psionic version and up to three minutes for the arcane—unless the caster used other spells to maintain this state, as Eldenser did.
The primary purpose of this state, however, was for the casters spirit to pass into and possess a metal or mostly metal object, specifically a blade such as a dagger or sword. In this state, the caster could see, hear, and feel as well as they could in their own body, but did not need to breathe, drink, eat, or sleep. They could also speak and use and powers they possessed that did not require their physical bodies or somatic or material components, that is, psionics and spells with only verbal components. The caster could not move the blade themselves, except with magic or psionics like far hand or telekinesis.
This could a number of hours for the psionic version or indefinitely for the arcane version, though the caster could choose to move on early, by either transferring to another blade if it was in contact, or by uttering a certain phrase, returning to the wraith-like form, and finding another blade, but this could also cause some loss of health. Breaking the blade would also force the caster out. The caster could end the effect and return their body.
The possessed blade did not become magical, but it could harm creatures that could only be struck by magical weapons. Damaging the blade did no harm to the caster. If the caster tried to possess a sentient magical weapon, it would resist, leading to a battle of wills. With success, the caster could fully control the weapons magical powers. With failure, the casters spirit had no such control and was simply along for the ride as normal.
In that time, the body healed and aged naturally but unconscious and vulnerable to disease and poison and still needing air, water, and sustenance. If slain, the casters spirit also died.
The arcane spell version required only a verbal component.
The psionic power version produced no display.
The only known user of stealsteel was Eldenser, who used it constantly to occupy swords and thereby travel and experience the Realms.
Eldenser once taught Khelben Arunsun steelsteal, bright and deadly ring, and just not there in exchange for other magic.
Eldensers rival dragons, Red Wizards of Thay, and the Cult of the Dragon all coveted these spells in the mid-to-late 14 century DR.