Transforming tune was an alteration/evocation spell that imbued a persons voice or a musical instrument with arcane, spell-like effects.
This spell was cast upon an individuals vocal cords or an instrument before it was picked up and played. When the affected person sang, or similarly when a performer began playing the enchanted instrument, a series of spell-like effects accompanied the music. These effects lasted for the duration of the spell, dependent on the power of the caster. It required verbal and somatic components to be cast.
If the performer of the transforming tune was familiar with its possible effects, they chose which occurred as well as the recipient. If they were unaware of the possibilities of the spell, the effect closest to their desires at the moment of performance was released. If they had a completely open and neutral mind, the effect was entirely random.
The spherical area affected by the spell could not be larger than  and could not be set more than  away from the source of the spells effects. It did not have to be set on ground level, and could be decreased in size or moved as per the will of the performer.
The known effects of transforming tunes were quite varied in power and use. They could break locks, chains, wizard locks and psionic controls dispel charms, polymorphic or shapechanging conditions unmake yet-to-be triggered spell conditions and even restore expended spells. In addition, they could levitate, polymorph, or remove curses from the performer and even grant them strength. The songs could mimic the effects of certain spells such as call woodland beings, dispel magic, dimension door, heal, repulsion, stone tell, stone to flesh, telekinesis, Tensers transformation, and true seeing.
Lastly, transforming tunes could create three effects that were somewhat unique. The song could instantly destroy any effects created by the spells entangle and Evards black tentacles, whether they had been triggered or not it could nullify the auditory powers of certain creatures including sphinxes, banshees, and shriekers and it could place a "weird" upon a living being, which warned the performer with song when the subject committed a specific action or deed.