Tree healing was a divine alteration and necromancy or conjuration spell used by priests devoted to Mielikki, enabling them to heal by melding with a tree. It was also available to priests of Gwaeron Windstrom
This spell allowed a wounded priest to heal by melding with a tree and receiving its own natural nutrients. The priest could remain hidden within the tree for as long as they desired to heal. The caster was fully aware of their surroundings while in this state but remained concealed from normal and magical detection, and they left no sign of their entry or presence on the outside of the tree. The caster was also protected from inclement weather conditions. The caster had no need to sleep, eat or even breathe while within the tree. There was a chance the tree would also neutralize any diseases carried by the caster, but it could not cure poisons bar those that naturally affected trees. Serious physical damage to the tree would harm the caster as well, and potentially expel them, and its destruction would slay them too. The caster could use any non-offensive magic while within the tree.
The spell would end when the caster left the tree unless they left some part of themselves within the tree, allowing them to stick out a head or hand as needed, but not step out entirely. The caster could not bring new items not present when the spell was cast back into the tree. After the , its duration was limited to only a day, but the caster would be completely healed in that time.
This spell only functioned on natural trees, and not treants or other plant creatures or sentient trees. The tree also needed to be large enough to contain the caster in height, width, and breadth.
This spell required only verbal and somatic components to cast as well as a divine focus.
It was recorded in Yornars Trail Companion, a holy text of the church of Mielikki.
Although first associated with the church of Mielikki, and shared with the churches of Gwaeron, and Rillifane, after 1372 it was also available to the allied church of Silvanus and church of Eldath, with those initiated into the higher secrets of one of the three able to receive it.