Tulruns tracer was an alteration/divination spell that created a luminescent pathway following the given route a particular person or creature had traveled.
Upon casting this spell, where the caster verbally described a specific being, an illuminated path appeared 10 feet (3 meters) in front of them. This line of light continued at a rate of 10 feet (3 meters) per second, further revealing the directed the person or creature traveled. The tracer only illuminated the path they walked, ran or otherwise traveled by foot or any distance they covered while riding upon a living mount. It stopped its revelations as soon as it reached an area whereupon the subject teleported, spanned a gap or barrier greater than 15 feet (4.6 meters), traveled to another plane of existence, traveled by any other means of conveyance, or somehow took flight.
The path laid out by the tracer came to an end when the duration of the spell ended or it reached a location where the target creature began to travel by some other means. If the latter was the case, the caster received a clear mental image of how the target altered their movement, and in the case of teleportation or traveling to another plane, became aware of the destination.
The tracer itself was intangible, could not be physically altered by passers-by or natural, physical occurrences such as wind or shifting of the ground. It was immune to the effects of less-powerful spells such as pass without trace, but portions of the illuminated pathway could be dispelled or concealed by other spells such as continual darkness.
In addition to verbal and somatic components, this spell required a pinch of phosphorus or a living plant or creature that emitted a natural glow.
This spell was developed by the great Uthgardt archmage Tulrun of the Tent, within the ancient city of Myth Drannor. The specifications of Tulruns tracer were compiled within The Wizards Workbook, a magical tome that was compiled by Tulruns Mentor, Mentor Wintercloak, one of the academys Seven Wizards.