The Vistani () were a traveling people, who never stayed long in one place and were always on the move. The Vistani were renowned travelers of the Mists in the Shadowfell, which did not hinder them in the least. The Vistani originated from the Domains of Dread.
The Vistani had darker complexions and usually sported jet-black hair. They wore colorful and cheery clothing and were big drinkers.
Vistani were usually regarded with suspicion because of their "Evil Eye", the ability to curse anyone they looked at. While the Vistana would get a mental backlash after the curse ended, some powerful Vistani could inflict very terrible curses upon those whod wronged them.
thumb|275px|The Heroes of Baldurs Gate stumble upon a Vistani camp.
According to some, the Vistani came from the same world as Strahd von Zarovich did before the mists claimed Barovia. While other scholars within the Domains of Dread asserted that the place of origin for the Vistani was unknown and that they did not appear until a century later, around the same era that Jander Sunstar appeared in Barovia. Any alleged evidence of Vistani presence in Barovia prior to then was thus a scholarly mistake, confusing the domains non-Vistani gypsies for Vistani.
In the late 15 century DR, a group of Vistani came to the town of Daggerford on Toril and did not leave until a group of unfortunate adventurers accompanied them into Barovia.
Also during the 15 century DR, a group of adventurers known as the Heroes of Baldurs Gate were pursuing a pair of werewolves that had robbed a temple of Kelemvor they were protecting of relics when suddenly one of them activated. An amulet, originating from Barovia, created a thick fog that began to fill the air. The fog quickly filled the room and the heroes, the Kelemvorite Nerys Kathon, along with the two werewolves and their associate Sangin, were all transported to the Demiplane of Dread.
On their first day in Barovia, the heroes stumbled upon the Vistani caravan of Madame Eva. She told Minsc his fortune using the tarokka deck, foretelling of failure to rid that realm of its evil. This sent the barbarian into a rage, smashing Madam Evas table before storming out of her tent, leaving his ally Shandie Freefoot to pay for the damages.
thumb|275px|A small group of Vistani wayfarers enter a new Domain of Dread
Vistani traveled in tight-knit family groups or tribes using barrel-topped wagons Each family was part of one of three culturally distinct, extended tribal groups known as tasques. Those encountered by adventurers from Faerûn included the Boem, who were primarily entertainers, and the Kaldresh, who were dedicated to the arts of crafting and tinkering.
Some Vistani would offer shelter, food, and protection for travelers and strangers alike. While evil Vistani were likely help Darklords such as Strahd von Zarovich capture weary adventurers and take them into the Domains of Dread.
Vistani were known for their musical talent as well as their skill in silversmithing, coppersmithing, cooking, weaving, entertaining, storytelling, toolmaking, and horse-trading.
The Book of the Raven, found in Candlekeep, was a journal about Vistani day-to-day life as well as the authors travels with them.
* Ezmerelda dAvenir
* Madame Coth, a wealthy silk merchant in Ravens Bluff who settled in the city after escaping from the Domains of Dread
* Marlena, a Vistani woman that assisted in the effort to cure Rengard Boltsmann of his lycanthropy, thereby ending his domain of Kirlanova and returning the city of Ravens Bluff to the Prime Material.