Wall of force (originally called Shans forcewall
The spellcaster can create a wall of force at any point within 120 feet for up to 10 minutes if concentration is maintained.  The force wall is one quarter inch thick and can be up to about 1,200 square feet. The wall can be almost any shape, only limiting any section to a minimum of 100 square feet.  Thus a caster might make a bridge or wall 10 feet wide or tall, and up to 120 feet long, or shape it into a dome or even a sphere with a radius of up to 10 feet.
If the Force wall would appear where a creature is located, they are pushed out to the edge of the effect.  In the instance of someone running through the doorway as you erect a force wall in it, they would be ejected, not trapped.
The wall of force created by this spell is immune to all damage and to dispel magic, but it is destroyed by the spell disintegrate and it is weak to mages disjunction spells, rods of cancellation and spheres of annihilation. The barrier is also present on the ethereal plane and blocks passage there as well.
In addition to verbal and somatic components, the caster required a pinch of powder ground from a clear gem (such as rusteen) to cast this spell, which vanished.
* Esklindrar Iol, a sage from Silverymoon
* Yashar, a male medusa who guarded the Undying Temple
The spell was invented by the Netherese arcanist Shan in 3235 NY (−624 DR)&mdashhis final recorded spell.
Walls of force were used to block the exits to the ruins of a school of wizardry located in the Highbank Forest. They were also used in the construction of the fifth region of the Sevenfold Mazework within the Great Dismal Delve on the Elemental Plane of Earth and in the architecture of the High Temple of Mystra on Mount Talath in Halruaa and the House of the Moon in Waterdeep. Such walls were used in the defense of the House of the Loregiver, the Vault of the Word of the Loregiver, and the Hall of Ashes in Huzuz, Zakhara.
During the Time of Troubles in the Year of Shadows, 1358 DR, an avatar of the goddess Shar used wall of force to deflect an ice storm hurled by Kyriani.