Wardmist was a spell that created a permanent, magical mist in a set location. This mist lowered the range of regular vision within the affected area, protected it from magical and psionic scrying and could provide guardians in the form of undead monsters.
The primary effects of the spell included the protection from divination as well as a magical fog that reduced vision as if those inside were in complete darkness. Light from natural sources would lower the effects of the fogs turbidity, but not remove it entirely.
Entry into and out of a wardmist was never inhibited, but people entering its area would be warned by a light or noise radiating from within the mist. Those who carried ward tokens, a uniquely stamped emblem of a metal specified upon casting, would not perceive the mist at all. The specifications of these tokens would be set at the spells casting, but they could be freely produced afterwards.
Any creature without a token would be seen as intruders by the magic of the wardmist and would unknowingly warn the caster and trigger any contingencies or spell triggers set upon the affected area. These spells could provide extra protection for the area, per the casters specifications. Even without these magics, the spell wardmist extended its protection of the area beyond scrying effects via undead guardians. 
Upon designation of a region to be protected by wardmist the caster, or casters combining their effort, would enclose an space, hundreds of feet in area. Undead guardians could be linked to the affected area upon casting, being released from a stasis when intruders enter or linger in the area of the mist. These guardians included zombies, skeletons, bonebats, watchghosts, wraiths, blazing bones, helmed horrors or baneguards.
If a dispel magic spell was cast within a wardmist it would increase visibility within the area of affect. The only way to destroy the effects of the spell was through use of a wish spell.
The material component for wardmist was a lump of silver larger than the fist of the caster, the silk of a phase spider, powdered amber worth no less than 500 gp. Additional components would be required if contingencies or spell triggers were linked with its casting.
The Cloister of St. Ramedar had a specially designed wardmist guarding the windows to the cells.