The North Road ran through the Vast from the city of Procampur at its southernmost point all the way to Mulmaster on the Moonsea at its northernmost point.
From north to south, the road began at Mulmaster and ran through Maskyrs Eye, Kurth, and Three Trees Pass between the Troll Mountains and the Giantspike Mountains. Then it went over the River Vesper, through Kings Reach, Swords Pool, Dead Tree Hollow, and Dragon Falls, and then over the Fire River. Next, it passed through the Earthfast Mountains at Glorming Pass, ran between the Adhe Wood and Brynwood. At Sevenecho it bent west toward Maerstar and ended at Procampur. On the way, it connected with the Hunt Trail, the Cross Road, the Long Reach, Blaerns Trail, the Hlintar Ride, Stormcrest Trail, Helves Trail, and the High Trail.
Several small campsites lay near the North Road as it passed through the High Country, each near a source of water. All along the North Road were also found boulders carved with the symbol of Clangeddin Silverbeard—a relic of the old dwarf kingdoms of the Vast.
Mount Wolf towered over the North Road near Kurth.
Two Sembian merchants explored the dwarven-held lands of the Vast during the time of the kingdom of Roldilar, 610–649 DR, as they sought a trade-route from the dwarven mines down to the River Vesper. They identified and named Three Trees Pass.
In the late 1350s DR, bandits started to attack travelers on the North Road north of Maskyrs Eye, targeting small bands of merchants, messengers, minstrels, and pilgrims, while ignoring large caravans and companies of mercenaries and adventurers. They ambushed and mercilessly murdered their victims with hails of arrows, leaving none alive to tell of them, then seized everything of value, even food, but took no beasts or prisoners. The bodies left on the road drew vultures and carrion-hungry undead to the region. Never taking the bait to any trap and never caught red-handed, it was supposed the bandits kept keen-eyed lookouts along the road and spies in neighboring communities. Circa 1357 DR, the Council of Maskyrs Eye sought adventurers to track the bandits down and deal with them. Any who took up the task would find the bandits followed a maze of side trails and had a hideout in an old mine to the east, in the foothills of the Giantspikes. The bandits numbered about forty, mostly well-armed deserters of Zhentil Keeps forces and fugitives from the defeated army of Lashan Aumersair, and they were led by a drider wizard.